Global (EN)

My Profile LOGOUT

Notification Message

There is no new notifications.
There is no new messages.
VIEW ALL
SMARTPHONE
HONOR View20
HONOR 8C
HONOR 10 Lite
HONOR Magic2
HONOR 8X
View More
ACCESSORIES
HONOR Watch Magic
HONOR Sport Bluetooth Earphones
HONOR Band4(Running)
HONOR Band3
View More
BRAND
ABOUT HONOR
NEWS
BLOG
ALBUM
Gallery
EVENT
SUPPORT
Login/Register
Message
My Profile
LOGOUT
Global

Recommend Search

RESULT()
+Load more

SELECT YOUR COUNTRY OR REGION

  * GLOBAL
  * ASIA PACIFIC
  * EUROPE
  * LATIN AMERICA
  * MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA
  * NORTH AMERICA
GLOBAL
Global - English
ASIA PACIFIC
India - English
Malaysia - English
Vietnam - Tiếng Việt
Myanmar - မြန်မာ
Indonesia - Bahasa
Thailand - ไทย
Australia - English
Philippines - English
Singapore - English
Bangladesh - English
China - 简体中文
Hong Kong - China 繁體中文
EUROPE
Bulgaria - Български
Greece - Ελληνικά
Netherlands - Dutch
Russia - Pусский
Czech - Čeština
Germany - Deutsch
Norway - Norsk språk
Spain - Español
Finland - Suomi
Hungary - Magyar Nyelv
Poland - Polski
United Kingdom - English
France - Français
Italy - Italiano
Serbia - Cрпски jезик
Sweden - Svenska
Turkey - Türkiye
Belarus - Pусский
Kyrgyzstan - Pусский
Slovakia - Slovenčina
Romania - Română
Ukraine - Український
LATIN AMERICA
Colombia - Español
Mexico - Español
MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA
Egypt - العربية
Farsi - فارسی
Pakistan - English
Iraq - العربية
Levant - العربية
South Africa - English
Morocco - Français
Middle East & Africa - English
Middle East & Africa - العربية
Saudi Arabia - English
Saudi Arabia - العربية
United Arab Emirates - English
United Arab Emirates - العربية
NORTH AMERICA
United States - English
Canada - English

SELECT YOUR COUNTRY

India
United Kingdom
France
Germany
Italy
Spain
United Arab Emirates
Saudi Arabia
Vietnam
Egypt
South Africa
Thailand
Myanmar
Russia
Farsi
Belarus
Poland
Finland
Hungary
Serbia
Bulgaria
Morocco
Ukraine

Notice

You are being redirected to a third party website. 0S
ok
Global Products Smartphone Honor 7C

Honor 7C


CAPTURE MORE


  * 13MP + 2MP
    Dual-lens Camera


  * 5.99” 18:9
    Honor FullView Display


  * Dual SIM
    and SD Card Slot


  * Face Unlock and Fingerprint Unlock


  * Sleek metal body


  * EMUI 8.0
    Based on Android 8.0


  * 3000 mAh (typical)
    Long Lasting Battery


  * Selfie Toning Light


Dual-lens camera
in the rear softly lit
selfies up front


Dual-lens camera in the rear
softly lit selfies up front

The flat-mounted rear 13MP + 2MP dual-lens camera features one lens for capturing the image and another for depth detection, delivering next-generation depth-of-field effects.
The 8MP front camera, with a F/2.0 wide aperture, is designed to take better selfies with the help of an intelligent adjustable selfie toning light. If you prefer fine-grain control, simply adjust the lighting brightness using manual mode to perfect your selfies.

Face unlock
and fingerprint unlock


Face unlock and fingerprint unlock

The Honor 7C unlocks with a simple touch or glance.It supports both face and fingerprint unlock* 1.

Massive Honor
FullView display*


Massive Honor FullView display*

Equipped with a 5.99 inch honor FullView display*2 featuring an 18:9 aspect ratio, the Honor 7C expands your horizons and delivers a more dynamic visual experience for reading, video streaming, or gaming.

  * 5.99 Inch


  * 18:9 Aspect Ratio


Flagship games run
smoothly without
draining your battery


Flagship games run smoothly
without draining your battery

The Honor 7C is equipped with a 14nm octa-core chipset, a powerful Adreno 506 GPU, 3GB RAM,and SmartPower 5.0 technology to ensure a smooth, seamless, and long-lasting gaming experience.

Dual-SIM support & storage expansion up to 256 GB

The Honor 7C features a dual SIM and SD card slot, enabling you to use two sim cards while you can also insert a microSD card simultaneously to store photos and data.

Sleek metal body
in a fashionable
palette of colors


Sleek metal body
in a fashionable palette of colors

The sleek body of the Honor 7C comes with a classic rounded-edge design that fits comfortably in your hand. Finished in your choice of three carefully chosen colors – blue, black and gold – the device exemplifies minimalism.

EMUI 8.0
intelligence that
understands you


EMUI 8.0
intelligence that understands you

The Honor 7C’s cutting-edge EMUI 8.0 system features a number of custom modes to enhance your user experience. The uninterrupted gaming mode allows you to enjoy your games without distraction. The Honor 7C also provides many functional features, including One-Click Split, Navigation Dock and many others.

A battery that will last for years

The 3000mAh (typical) battery of the Honor 7C is designed for longevity, maintaining over 80% of its capacity even after 500 full recharges*3. The USB connector is lined with a metal protection layer, ensuring it can hold up to being plugged in over 10,000 times* 4.

Real-time audio monitoring for better recording on the go

The Honor 7C offers real-time audio monitoring through your earbuds, allowing you to listen to your own voice while recording your singing, giving you a studio experience in the palm of your hand.

Dual Bluetooth

The dual Bluetooth feature allows the phone to connect with two devices via Bluetooth at the same time.

*1.Face unlock feature will be provided via OTA update.


*2.FullView display typically refers to a device with a higher screen-to-device ratio design.


*3,4.Data based on honor lab tests.


Statement


*Product pictures and display contents on the foregoing pages are provided for reference only. Actual product features and specifications (including but not limited to appearance, color, and size), as well as actual display contents (including but not limited to backgrounds, UI, and icons) may vary；


**All data in the foregoing pages are theoretical values obtained by honor internal laboratories through tests carried out under particular conditions. Actual data may vary owing to differences in individual products, software versions, application conditions, and environmental factors. All data is subject to actual usage；


***Due to real-time changes involving product batches, production and supply factors, in order to provide accurate product information, specifications, and features, honor may make real-time adjustments to text descriptions and images in the foregoing information pages, so that they match the product performance, specifications, indexes, and components of the actual product. Product information is subject to such changes and adjustments without notice.


ALWAYS STAY UPDATED


Subscribe for updates, special offers and more.


Thanks for your subscription


Follow HONOR


Share your idea


  * ABOUT HONOR

    Brand Event News Blog Album

  * PRODUCTS

    HONOR View20 HONOR 8C HONOR 10 Lite HONOR Magic2 HONOR 8X HONOR Play

  * SUPPORT

    Support Centre Declaration of Conformity

  * TECHNOLOGY

    GPU Turbo Kirin 980

CONTACT US


Monday - Friday

honorglobal@hihonor.com

Global


English

Site Map | Terms Of Use | Privacy | Cookies | Legal | 苏ICP备17040376号
Copyright © 2019 Huawei Software Technologies Co., Ltd.
We use cookies to improve our site and your experience. By continuing to browse our site you accept our cookie policy. Find out more.