Staff Reviews of the Moto G6 Play

Republic Blogs
shannono 2018-07-03 17:15:15 UTC #1

Every time we add a new phone to our portfolio we have team members test the phone’s capabilities. During this time our testers meet with our product team and give feedback on their experience with the new devices. Here’s what the testers had to say about the Moto G6 Play.


for_shannon_2.png888×1440 234 KB


Quick specs:


3 GB RAM
32 GB ROM
Max Vision 5.7” full-HD display
Fingerprint reader
All-day battery + TurboPower™ charging

Vault_Dweller:

The Moto G6 Play is a nice budget device that has a surprisingly good camera for a phone in its price range (sub <$200). I was impressed with the image quality in normal lighting and had several people comment on the ‘crispness’ of the photos taken with the G6 Play. Having dealt with poor cameras on previous Motorola phones of the same price range in the past, having a camera that you can count on was a nice change of pace.


Other features that Motorola was able to fit into this phone that makes it feel more premium than something I’ve been accustomed to on their Moto G line - A larger screen, fingerprint scanner on the back (finally!), and rapid charging out of the box (not that you’ll need to charge too often, as I’ve found the battery life of this one phone to be great with its 4000 mAh capacity).


One recommendation I have for anyone considering getting a G6 Play is definitely pick up a nice case as the phone by itself is rather slick (and prone to sliding off common surfaces!)”

southpaw:

While I really like the simplicity of using a fingerprint reader, I couldn’t adjust to the back and center location of the reader on this phone. Access was cumbersome if the phone was face-up on my desk. What’s more, I couldn’t master the art of sliding it into the designated pocket of my bag without brushing the fingerprint reader, so it always ended up unlocked with the home screen open as it settled into the depths of my bag.”

mk.a:

I use a Nexus 6P so naturally found the G6 to be laggy in comparison. I liked the feature that lets you auto-cut out blue light after a certain time at night. I’m used to as pure as possible Android OS and the Moto apps seemed like bloatware to me.


We’d like to hear from you - what other questions do you have for our teammates about this phone?

Home Categories Guidelines Terms of Service Privacy Policy

Powered by Discourse, best viewed with JavaScript enabled

Help
Help Center Activation Wizard
Account
Manage Phone Invoices Account Settings
Shop
Phones BYOP SIM card Plans Coverage Number portability