* News
  * Forums
    Forum Home

    Top Devices


    New Devices


    Topics

  * Devices
    More
  * Topics

    Features


    Customize

  * Best Posts
close
close
Remember me Forgot password?
Log In
Register or Login with Google


Notifications


My Devices (edit)

  * Log Out
  * Settings
  * Reported Posts

XDA’s Apps


  * Nav Gestures


    Add swipe gestures to any Android, no root


  * One handed mode


    Make your phone easier to use with one hand, no root


  * XDA Forum App


    The best way to access XDA on your phone


  * XDA Labs


    An app store for independent developers


  * Hyperion Launcher


    A sweet, feature-filled launcher with a beautiful UX.


Sites we like


  * Swappa


    XDA’s official marketplace for buying and selling tech


  * Pocketnow


    Premium videos


Social


* Resources

  * Subscribe to our Newsletter
  * Contact
  * About
  * Tip Us
July 23, 2018 11:45pm 0 Comments Idrees Patel

Honor View 10 update brings electronic image stabilization (EIS), call recording, and more


The Honor View 10 was launched in January 2018 as an affordable flagship smartphone. Its list of specifications includes the high-end HiSilicon Kirin 970 system-on-chip, 6GB of RAM paired with 128GB of storage, 6-inch Full HD+ (2160×1080) 18:9 IPS LCD, dual 16MP (RGB) + 20MP (monochrome) rear cameras, 16MP front camera, and a 3,750mAh battery. The phone shipped with EMUI 8.0 on top of Android 8.0 Oreo. In the US, the phone launched in March with EMUI 8.1 on top of Android 8.1 Oreo.


The international BKL-L09 model of the Honor View 10 hasn’t received EMUI 8.1 on top of Android 8.1 yet, however, which means that it’s still running Android 8.0. Now, Honor is rolling out an update to the Honor View 10 BKL-L09 model in India. The update will bring the software version of the Honor View 10 to BLK-L09 8.0.0.161. It adds electronic image stabilization (EIS), call recording, “thermal optimization,” and Ride mode.


Honor notes that since the launch of the Honor View 10, many users had expressed feedback about the absence of EIS on the device. The Honor View 10 does not have optical image stabilization (OIS), and the absence of EIS meant that the phone had no video stabilization whatsoever at launch. This was a significant drawback when considering the fact that even phones such as the Xiaomi Redmi Note 5 Pro now have EIS for recording [email protected] videos. The lack of EIS meant that videos recorded on the Honor View 10 were prone to camera shake.


The 8.0.0.161 update now does bring EIS, which is noted by Honor to be an electronic image stabilization technique that minimizes blurring and compensates for device shake while capturing video. Notably, the Honor 10 also recently received a update that brought the EIS feature.


The update for the Honor View 10 also brings call recording and Ride mode for users riding a bike. The changelog also mentions “thermal optimization,” but doesn’t go into further detail. Finally, it includes the July 2018 Android security patches.


The full changelog can be read below:


Changelog


EIS Feature – Enable EIS, an electronic image stabilization technique which minimizes blurring and compensates for device shake while capturing video.


Call Recorder – Call recorder feature added.


Ride Mode – Ride mode feature added.


[Bug fixes]


Thermal Optimization – Thermal optimization done.


Security Patch – Google security patches are merged to make your device more secure.


Honor states that the update will roll out in batches starting July 24 to Honor View 10 users in India. Users in other markets will then start to receive the update.

Source: Honor
* Discuss This Story

Tags HonorHonor View 10

Want more posts like this delivered to your inbox? Enter your email to be subscribed to our newsletter.

Email Address
Frequency - Select -XDA News DailyXDA News Weekly
Subscribe

READ THIS NEXT

0 Comments

LG V40 ThinQ Display Review: The Underdog Has Finally Caught Up

0 Comments

Xiaomi’s UK launch has been sullied by growing pains, but the company is still looking forward

0 Comments

Android Q’s Dark Mode: How Google’s next Android OS will tackle blindingly light themes

Please enable JavaScript to view comments.

About Author

Idrees Patel 677 posts see posts >
Idrees Patel is a smartphone enthusiast from India. He has been an Android user since the time he got the LG Optimus One in 2011. He has a bachelor's degree in Management Studies. The subjects in which he is interested are mobile processors, real-world UI performance, in-depth camera quality analysis, and many more. Contact: [email protected]


Subscribe to XDA


Receive the freshest Android & development news right in your inbox!

Email Address
Consent
I give xda-developers permission to collect and use my data submitted in this form.

Give consent that we may collect and use your data.

Subscribe Now

Latest XDA News


Nokia 7.1 Video Review – Dear HMD Global: Please Do More Of This!

February 5, 2019

LG V40 ThinQ Display Review: The Underdog Has Finally Caught Up

February 5, 2019

The Alcatel 1S and ZTE Blade A5 2019 are upcoming budget smartphones that run Android Pie

February 5, 2019

Motorola Moto Z4 Play leak suggests 48MP rear camera and in-display fingerprint sensor

February 5, 2019

Become a Professional Graphic Designer with This Adobe Training Bundle

February 5, 2019

From the Forums


Xiaomi Mi Play’s kernel source code is now available

February 1, 2019

Simple Mobile Tools – A Collection of Open Source, Ad-Free apps

February 1, 2019

FWUL, the Linux distro designed for Android debugging and modding, hits version 3.0

January 31, 2019

SALT is a third-party alternative to LG UP

January 31, 2019

OPPO Find X’s kernel source code is now available

January 30, 2019

Binary Watch Face brings the 1s and 0s to your Wear OS smartwatch because why not

January 30, 2019

Widget Timeline shows your calendar events on the Amazfit Pace/Stratos/Verge

January 30, 2019
More Forum Links

Suggested Apps


Official XDA Forum App

The XDA App is the fastest way to access the forums on mobile.

Navigation Gestures

Customizable gesture control for any Android device.

XDA Labs

Labs is an independent app store that gives developers full control over their work.

Substratum

The ultimate, most complete theming solution for Android.

Hyperion Launcher

A sweet, feature-filled launcher with a beautiful UX.

XDA Developers was founded by developers, for developers. It is now a valuable resource for people who want to make the most of their mobile devices, from customizing the look and feel to adding new functionality.
Are you a developer? | Terms of Service

More info
  * Contact
  * Advertise
  * Rules
  * Suggest Content
  * Security
  * Privacy Policy
  * XDA App
  * Remove ads on XDA
    
  * Root Any Device
  * How To Guides
  * XDA's Best


Copyright © xda-developers. Hosted by Leaseweb

We're Social