Homepage
Homepage
Become a memberSign inGet started

The Asus Zenfone 5 – through the eyes of a photographer

Nicco ValenzuelaBlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
May 1, 2018

Today marks the 1st year anniversary of when Asus Philippines brought me on board as one of their Pixelmasters for the Philippines, then for the Asus Zenfone 3 zoom, Asus’ first Dual camera smartphone. A couple weeks back, we launched yet another Zenfone which has been deemed as the most intelligent Zenfone yet. There have been hundreds of reviews of the amazing smartphone and over half a month since the launch, people are still constantly buying and looking for stocks of this revolutionary smartphone.


This review, of course, as I did with the Zenfone 3 zoom will focus entirely on the camera, the unique features, the impeccably efficient UI, and the overall image quality. Here I will share with you photos from the intances wherein I’ve pushed this phone’s camera to it’s limits.


Tech Specs:


The Zenfone 5 has two rear cameras and one front facing cameras.


Main Camera


The main camera boasts a 12 megapixel camera with a focal length of 24mm (full frame DSLR equivalent) which is a standard wide angle length perfect for everyday use. With a 1/2.55” sensor it produces an equivalent of about f/5.6 depth of field while maintaining the light sensitivity of the f/1.8 aperture. Sharpness is outstanding with a significantly high resolution full sized image and an outstanding dynamic range seen both in Jpeg HDRs and in single image processed Raw files. Noise is decent up to ISO 800 which is pretty good for such a small sensor which keeps the camera very much capable in low light conditions.


Secondary Camera


The secondary camera boasts of an ultra-wide angle lens at 12mm (full frame DSLR equivalent) which is a personal favorite. While this one shoots only 8 megapixel images, this camera can be very much enabling in shooting travel and landscape images and of course, it’s obviously very handy when it comes to taking group shots. The aperture of f/2.2 comes up with an equivalent depth of field similar to f/8 (full frame DSLR) while still light sensitive. Dynamic range is a bit less compared to the main camera, about 1 to 2 stops of light less which is why the fact that it automatically sets to infinity focus during low light conditions wherein auto focus may be challenging comes in very handy. At this focal length and with the equivalent depth of field, mis-focusing is very unlikely especially when photographing wide night vistas.


Front camera


The front camera is equipped with another 8 megapixel sensor capable of taking high dynamic range images, a wide angle lens for “wefies” and is capable of applying the depth effect in situations wherein you want to blur out your background


User interface and features


The Zen UI for this phone comes with a very user friendly and ergonomic interface perfect for taking pictures on the go.


Flash, HDR, Depth effects and the main settings button are on top/left depending on orientation while the camera switcher button lies above the shutter button. Around it are the buttons for Pro mode settings that control Shutter speed, ISO, EVF adjustment for when you want to use it like a DSLR in Program mode, and a button that controls focusing which opens to a dial in case you would want to focus manually.


Camera modes


The Automatic mode is integrated with the Zenfone 5’s very capable AI (artificial intelligence) Auto mode with AI is able to recognize subjects and apply pre-set treatments depending on the detected subject. The AI is also capable of Photo learning which learns the preferences of the user in given subjects or shooting situations. It detects if you are photographing text, food, macro, outdoor vistas, portraits and applies either a preset or a learned treatment depending on your previous usage of the camera.


Pro mode comes with a very efficient UI as discussed above that allows full control of the camera settings in terms of Shutter speed, a low minimum ISO of 25 that allows long exposure effects, and afully customizable white balance that gives you a wide range of colors for your desired treatment.


Other modes are similar to what’s already available on older zenfones like an automatic timelapse mode, GIF maker, Slow motion video, and Panorama. Beauty mode applies the beauty effects onto the images of the rear cameras and give you the option of using the depth effect to achieve an isolated subject with a blurred background similar to DSLR cameras with large aperture lenses. The Super resolution mode takes 4 shots in a snap and splices them to create a monster 49megapixel image perfect for when you would need such a big photograph.


Here are more sample photographs showcasing the Zenfone 5’s superior camera system


Lowlight: Main Camera ISO 100 shutter speed of 1/50


Left: Architecture using the secondary/wide angle camera


Right: Significantly capable dynamic range against strong light sources


Night Photography/Cityscapes: Main camera, 10 second exposure on a tripod, ISO 25


Secondary/Wide angle camera doing long exposures


Close-up product photography, very hand for on-the-go business visuals


Portraiture


Conclusion


The Asus Zenfone 5’s camera has been infamous for very compelling reasons. The camera on its own is very powerful and in the hands of a learned photographer or photography enthusiast, it becomes a very capable camera that perfectly fits the lifestyle of a very visual person. Capable of shooting RAW photos, it maximizes the images and enables the user to produce precisely the photos they desire. Processing the Raw photos in apps such as adobe lightroom allows fine tuning of the output to come up with masterfully done images without having to carry big cameras and computers for post processing.


They say that the best camera around is always the one that’s in your hands and it’s important to have a camera as good as this in your hands wherever you go.


Thanks for reading!


Follow http://facebook.com/NVphotoblog for more reviews and tutorials, and http://instagram.com/niccov.ph for more photos!

  * Photography
  * Smartphones
  * Cameras
  * Technology
  * Art
39 claps
* BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing

Nicco Valenzuela


Landscape and Architectural Photographer. Social Advocate through Photography. Camera geek. |Manila, Philippines|

  * 39
* Never miss a story from Nicco Valenzuela, when you sign up for Medium. Learn more
Never miss a story from Nicco Valenzuela
BlockedUnblockFollowGet updates