Toggle navigation
  * Categories
      + Accessories
      + Software
      + Phones
      + Wearables
      + Inside Motorola
  * Contact
      + Press Contacts
      + Executive Team
      + Image and Video License Terms and Conditions
      + Images & B-Roll
  * Global
      + Latin America
      + Brazil
  * Search for:

* Thursday, August 31, 2017


Style In Sharp Focus with the New moto x4

No Comments

moto x has always represented the best of what Android has to offer. The powerful combination of pure Android and Moto Experiences has been a mainstay of the moto x franchise, offering a uniquely intuitive user experience that consumers love. Building on this strong brand heritage, the new moto x is a smartphone crafted to perfection. With smarter software, the latest camera technology and beautiful design, moto x4 is a phone designed like no other.


moto x4: Bringing Style into Sharp Focus


Creating A Smarter Camera
moto x4 features a smarter camera that can do more than just capture photos. The new Landmark Detection1 feature lets the camera serve as your eye to the world – just point the lens at an object of interest and it will automatically ask if you want to learn more about what you’re seeing. It can even scan a business card and quickly add the info to your contacts. Or if you’re looking to spice up your selfies, try out the Face Filters feature2, which lets you add a layer of animations to your photos or videos.


Now offering twice the camera, you can capture and do more with the combined capabilities of dual 12MP and 8MP rear cameras and advanced camera software. Add a blurred background to take professional looking portraits and be among the first to experiment with new beta features that let you use selective black and white or color or even change the background. Dual Autofocus Pixel technology also means a faster focus in low light so you get professional quality pictures, and the wide angle lens lets you capture even more. Selfies take on new meaning with moto x4, which has a 16MP front camera with an adaptive low light mode3 for the selfie you meant to take, while the new Panoramic Selfie feature provides a broader background so no one is cut out of the photo from your next family outing.


Powerful Protection and Performance
moto x4 is armed with robust protection allowing you to tackle whatever your day may call for without worry. The IP68-rated water resistant design4 keeps moto x4 protected from accidental spills, splashes and even puddles, so whether you’re mountain biking in the rain or there’s an accidental beverage spill in your kitchen, you can say goodbye to water damage. And when paired with the 3D rear contoured design, an anodized aluminum frame and Corning® Gorilla® Glass protecting the front and back of the device from scratches, moto x4 is as strong as it is beautiful.


Equipped with powerful performance capabilities, streaming is now more efficient than ever with moto x4, which is driven by a Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ 630 2.2 GHz octa-core processor, giving you all the performance you need to watch videos and play games free from annoying stutters. Inside, a 3,000 mAh battery will power you through your day5, and the TurboPower™ charger gives you six hours of power in just 15 minutes6.


New and Intuitive Experiences
Hands tied up? At your busiest moments, moto x4 has your back. Experience Amazon Alexa integrated right into moto x4 – without having to unlock it first.7 Now, the benefits of Alexa go with you, even when you leave home. So if you need Alexa to read your grocery list or help you with some tricky lyrics while you’re out of the house it’s possible with moto x4.


moto x has always incorporated the best software experiences to make your phone smarter and easier to use. So it’s no surprise moto x4 features all the Moto Experiences you love, plus new software features that make your phone even better to use. Why should you be limited to just one speaker? moto x4 is now the life of the party with wireless sound system, allowing you to share the sound by connecting up to four Bluetooth® audio devices at the same time8. Build your own stereo system without worrying about cables or listen to a playlist across two sets of earphones while running with a friend. With wireless sound system, sound is all around you.


And now with our Quick Screenshot feature, just place three fingers on the screen for a moment to capture a screenshot anytime. moto x4 is also equipped with Moto Key, which allows you to access your favorite password-secured websites on your phone or laptop with a simple touch of your finger, while strong encryption ensures your data stays protected9. So, with your moto x4, you can say goodbye to remembering all those passwords.


Availability and Pricing

The new moto x will be available starting in September in various countries in Europe starting at €399. It will be available in other global markets, including the U.S., later this fall.


Check with your local PR rep for more details.


Images can be found here (you agree to our license terms when downloading images or video).


1 Landmark Detection feature included as part of an upgrade that must be accepted by user.
2 Face Filter Feature will be available via a Play Store update on September 26.
3 In low light mode, increasing the pixel size reduces resolution to 4 MP.
4 Liquid damage not covered under warranty. Water, splash and dust resistance were tested to IP68 standards under controlled laboratory conditions. Resistance will decrease as a result of normal wear. Not designed to work while submerged underwater. Do not expose to pressurized water, or liquids other than fresh water. Do not attempt to charge a wet phone.
5 All battery life claims are approximate and based on a standard mixed use profile. The mixed use profile is based on Motorola devices on major 4G LTE networks with excellent coverage and includes both usage and standby time. Out-of-box settings are applied to the mixed use profile to project battery performance. Actual battery performance will vary and depends on many factors including signal strength, network configuration, age of battery, operating temperature, features selected, device settings, and voice, data, and other application usage patterns.
6 Battery must be substantially depleted; charging rate slows as charging progresses. Charger sold separately in some markets
7 Amazon Alexa integration is available in markets where Amazon has Alexa, including the U.S., Germany and UK.
8 When phone is connected to 2.4GHz WiFi network, it will be limited to one Bluetooth® audio device.
9 Requires Bluetooth® 2.1 support on your computer with at least Windows 7 or later versions of the Windows operating system.


Designed and manufactured by/for Motorola Mobility, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lenovo.

MOTOROLA, Stylized M Logo, MOTO and the MOTO family of marks are trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC. Android is a trademark of Google Inc. Qualcomm and Snapdragon are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated, registered in the United States and other countries. Qualcomm Snapdragon is a product of Qualcomm Technologies. Amazon, Alexa and all related logos are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. Corning Gorilla Glass is a trademark of Corning Incorporated. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. © 2017 Motorola Mobility LLC. All rights reserved.


Share


Please


* Subscribe

Email *

Most Recent

  * A 5G first for moto z3
  * 9 Ways Motorola’s Changed in 90 Years – Before and After
  * Motorola + Android One
  * Baked For You: Android Pie Is Coming To Motorola
  * Motorola Connects You to 5G First
  * moto e5play: Performance and Protection with Android™ Oreo™ (Go edition)
  * Make your everyday extraordinary with the new moto z3 play
  * Push your boundaries with the new moto g6 and moto e5
  * 45 Years Calls for a Celebration
  * Changes in our leadership

Archive

  * ► 2018 (13)
  * ► 2017 (20)
  * ► 2016 (19)
  * ► 2015 (46)
  * ► 2014 (78)
  * ► 2013 (21)
  * Products
      + Moto Mods
      + Moto Z Family
      + Moto X Family
      + Moto G Family
      + Moto E Family
      + All Moto Phones
      + Moto 360 (2nd Gen.)
      + Moto 360 Sport
      + Cases & shells
      + Chargers
      + Motorola Home
  * Get Help
      + Product Support
      + Forums
      + Contact Us
      + Product Registration
      + Developers
      + Moto Financing
  * About
      + About Motorola
      + News
      + Careers
      + Privacy and Legal
      + Executive Team
      + Get Updates
  * Regional Blogs
      + Latin America Blog (Spanish)
      + Brasil Blog/G+

Follow Us


* USA | Change Country


© 2019 Motorola Mobility LLC. All Rights Reserved


MOTOROLA and the Stylized M Logo are registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC


All mobile phones are designed and manufactured by Motorola Mobility LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lenovo