Recent Posts

  * 5 KD challenge: Things to buy for 5 KD and less from Xcite
  * Baby Care products on Xcite: More fun, less stress
  * Panasonic on Xcite.com: 100 years of innovation
  * HP: All Your Tech Needs by One Name in Kuwait
  * Huawei: Third largest smartphone manufacturer on Xcite.com
  * 0
  * Buying Guide
      + Smart Phones
          o Apple iPhone
          o Samsung
          o Nokia Smart Phones
      + Computer & Tablet
          o Laptop 2018
          o VR Headsets
          o Games
      + Home Appliances
          o Home Entertainment
      + Perfumes
          o Perfumes For Him
          o Perfumes For Her
  * Tip Tuesday
  * Xcite Kuwait
      + Offer Zone Kuwait
      + Flash Deals Kuwait
  * Xcite KSA
      + Offer Zone KSA
      + Flash Deals KSA
  * العربية
  * 0
      + Login to add posts to your read later list
Samsung Galaxy Note 9
Buying Guide, Mobile Phones, Samsung, Smart Phones

Samsung Galaxy Note 9 too good to be true

mohameduser, 5 months ago 0 4 min read 2070

Samsung Galaxy Note 9: too good to be true?


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 is one of the most powerful smartphones that will be released this year. And this is not just in the Samsung category. Are you interested to know some headlines before we start digging deep into specs? Well, the new model looks a lot like the Note 8 by Samsung only with improved cameras, extra storage, bigger screen, longer-lasting battery. The Note 9 also has an S-pen with Bluetooth, which is completely revolutionary. Now that you know the headlines, let’s talk more about this 2018 masterpiece by Samsung.


Specs of the phone


It’s now time to take a closer look at what this exciting phone has to offer. For a starter, Note 9 runs on Android v8.1 (Oreo) operating system. The display screen of the Note 9 is 6.4 inches (16.26 cm). Believe it or not, this is the biggest display screen created by Samsung to-date. What is also special about this display screen is that it comes in deeper black than any of the previous models. This, according to Samsung, ‘allows it to blend in with the bezels when the device is off and enhances the overall aesthetic’. The screen resolution is 1440 x 2960 pixels.


Did you know that the new Note 9 comes with a 512 GB option? If you are someone who is really into smartphones and their specs, then you already know that this is an unbelievable space for a phone. Even the iPhone x is limited to 256 GB. You can imagine the difference. The phone also has an up to 8 GB of RAM.


The battery of the Note 9 is 4000 mAh. It can last you an entire day, at least this is what Samsung promises. This feature specifically was tested extensively, to avoid any accidents like the battery explosions incident in 2016.


The Note 9 camera is your best friend with its scene detecting mode feature; it helps you take flawless pictures by choosing the best shooting mode for you. If you are into photography or taking selfies, this is one of your best options. This feature is exclusive to the Note 9. In addition to this feature, the Camera got its share of the upgrade. The Note 9 has a dual 12MP rear setup with dual- aperture technology. The front camera is 8 MP. On a lighter note, the AR Emoji are back with some more customization.


As you may already know, the S Pen feature is one of the main reasons people switch to the Note phones. With the Note 9, as we mentioned earlier, Samsung gave the S Pen a major upgrade. This upgrade is the addition and utilization of a Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE). This allows you to have control over your phone from a distance. It’s revolutionary, right? You can use it to pause videos, move between slides of a presentation, and is a switch to take selfies as well as group photos. However, the S Pen has more uses than this. Keep in mind that this new S Pen will need to be charged because of its battery. This upgrade is the first of its kind in years.


What is also impressive about the Note 9 is that it is compatible with the Dex. This allows you to use your phone as a desktop. Just plug into a monitor and keyboard and enjoy the experience.


The Note 9 phone looks extremely elegant. Thanks to the Die-cutting process that was used to create the frame, it has a mix of both glossy and matte finishes. This goes really well with the elegant and premium design. The phone is 8.8 mm slim and weights 201 grams. What colors are the phone available in? you are probably wondering. If you live in the states, you can either have it in Ocean Blue or Lavender Purple. However, if you live in other parts of the world, you have a wider selection between Midnight Black and the Metallic Copper. Note 9, like all the other models by Samsung, comes with its own official set of unique and colorful wallpapers that you can use.


The only downside to the phone, according to the different experts and reviewers, is its extremely high price. You can buy as much money for an iPhone X and only get the basic features of the Note 9.


Continue to be impressed


It’s not brand new news that Samsung makes exquisite phones. However, it is only fair to say that Samsung truly stepped up their smartphone game with the Galaxy Note 9. All the tech, including the processor, battery, and RAM, used truly shows that the company put their hearts and souls into this

#best online shopping #Mobile Commerce #Mobile Phones in Kuwait #note 9 #online shopping experience #Samsung Galaxy Note 9 #Samsung Galaxy S9 and S9+ #Shopping in Saudi #Smart Phone #smart phones
Apple iPhone

What does Apple have in store for the crowd in 2018?

College Student Needs, Laptop 2018, Mobile Phones, Tip Tuesday

Looking for I.T Products for Graphics Designing Students?


Related posts

Apple iPhone, Best Computer Keyboards, Buying Guide, Games, Home Appliances, Home Entertainment, Online Shopping

Ready, set, shop: KSA’s biggest Mega Sale at Xcite.

0 534
Buying Guide, eCommerce, Home Appliances, Home Entertainment, Online Shopping, Samsung, Smart Homes, Sound Systems

Get Ready for the FIFA World Cup 2018 with Xcite

0 1648
Apple iPhone, Artificial Intelligence, Best Computer Keyboards, Buying Guide, Cameras & Lenses, College Student Needs, Computer & Tablet, eCommerce, Games, Games Cards & iTunes, Home Appliances, Home Entertainment, Laptop 2018, Mobile Phones, Mobile Phones, Nokia Smart Phones, Online Cards & iTunes, Online Shopping, Perfumes, Perfumes For Her, Perfumes For Him, Razer Blackwidow, Samsung, Smart Homes, Smart Phones, Smart Watches, Sound Systems, Super Sale, Technology For Men, Tip Tuesday, valentines day, VR Headsets, Workout Equipment

Benefits of Shopping Online

1 822
Smart Phones

Things To Consider While Buying A Smartphone Online

0 1283
Samsung

SAMSUNG S8 WORTH THE PRICE

0 1139
Artificial Intelligence, Buying Guide, eCommerce, Home Appliances, Home Entertainment, Smart Homes

Home Automation Technology Products Available on Xcite

1 494

Leave a Reply

Your comment *
Name *

Email *

Website *


Please enter an answer in digits:

14 − 7 =
Required fields are marked *

What are our Blue Friday deals? Join our free newsletter to stay in the loop!

Email:
I agree to the Terms & Conditions

X-cite On Facebook

WordPress Theme built by Shufflehound.
  * Xcite Saudi Store
  * Xcite Kuwait Store
© 2018 X-cite General Trading Co. S.P.C