The Bible Project
  * Menu
          o Explore
          o Blog
          o Podcast
          o Donate
          o Home
          o Login
          o 0
          o Free Resources
              - Video Downloads
              - Poster Downloads
              - Study Notes
              - Other Cool Stuff
          o Shop
              - Poster Book
              - Posters
              - Video USB
              - T-Shirts
          o Connect
              - Contact Us
              - Get Support
              - Take a Tour
          o Meet TBP
              - About
              - Team
              - Languages
      + 0

Exodus 1-18

Torah
Narrative,
Epic Narrative
God rescues the Israelites from slavery in Egypt and confronts the evil and injustice of Pharaoh.

The first part of Exodus recounts how Abraham’s family ends up enslaved in Egypt. God raises up a deliverer to confront the evil of Pharaoh and to liberate the Israelites. From Egypt, they set out into the wilderness on the way to Mt. Sinai.


Torah Series Part III


Milestones

Slavery in Egypt
After 430 years of brutal slavery in Egypt, God answers the Israelites' cries for help. He sends Moses and Aaron to tell Pharaoh to release them.
God vs. Pharaoh
Moses and Aaron keep telling Pharaoh about God's message, but Pharaoh doesn't listen. God sends nine plagues in Egypt, yet Pharaoh's heart grows hard each time.
The Passover
God sends one final plague: Kill Egypt's firstborn overnight. The Israelites sacrifice lambs, spread the blood on their doorways and are saved – the first Passover.
The Exodus
Pharaoh's son dies and the Israelites leave, but Pharaoh changes his mind and pursues them. They miraculously cross the sea and the Egyptian army drowns.
Miracles in the Wilderness
The Israelites praise God for saving them but eventually grumble against Moses' leadership. In His mercy, God provides them with food and water in the wilderness.

Filled with memorable miracles, Chapters 1-18 in the Book of Exodus hold much more purpose than simple entertainment. They contain historical accounts with tangible truths that still apply to the present. The story begins in Egypt where Genesis leaves off but reveals a much darker picture: Abraham's descendants have indeed grown as numerous as the stars, but are now oppressed in slavery by a Pharaoh who has forgotten the kindness his predecessor showed to Joseph's family.


Hearing their prayers, God confronts Pharaoh's stubbornness and delivers the Israelites from bondage. He sends Moses and Aaron to Pharaoh as agents that usher in a multitude of signs and wonders, and display God's glory in a land of idols. God also establishes the first Passover, a turnkey event for the founding of Israel and Christ's sacrifice. Themes of redemption, rebellion and The Blessing continue to play out for individuals and nations in this section.


Read Scripture Part I


Exodus 1-18

Read More
Continue Your Learning Journey
Series Blogs Podcasts Downloads Books
Blogs
Series
Exodus 19-40
God leads the Israelites from Egypt back to Mt. Sinai, where He establishes Abraham's Covenant with them through a special set of laws in the Book of Exodus.

Learn More
Blog Posts
When Pharaoh’s Heart Grew Harder Timothy Mackie Let’s be honest, Exodus 1-18 is a super intense part of the biblical story, which raises some heavy theological questions. The epic showdown between God and Pharaoh over the fate of the enslaved Israelites is a page-turner. Pharoah is a really bad man—actually the worst pers... Keep Reading
Podcast Series
Torah Crash Course
Torah Crash Course
3 Episodes • This set of lectures was my effort to condense the first five foundational books of Jesus’s Bible because they introduce the Plot conflict and storyline that Jesus believed he was bringing to fulfillment.
1
Torah Crash Course Episode 1
Episode 1
This is the first of a three part series called the Torah Crash Course, exploring the book of Genesis. This important biblical book sets the basic plot line and core themes of the entire biblical storyline.
2
Torah Crash Course Episode 2
Episode 2
This is part two of a three part series called Torah Crash Course. This episode explores the important stories of the exodus and giving of the law at Mt. Sinai.
3
Torah Crash Course Episode 3
Episode 3
This is Part three of a three part series called the Torah Crash Course. If you haven’t listened to Parts 1 and 2, I highly recommend it. We finish by exploring the books of Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy and how they develop the storyline that Jesus believed he was bringing to fulfillment.
View Entire Series
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Downloads
Exodus Read Scripture Poster
Exodus Part I Study Notes
Books
Popular
How to Read Exodus
Tremper Longman
Exodus (The NIV Application Commentary)
Peter E. Enns
Academic
Exploring Exodus: The Origins of Biblical Israel
Nahum Sarna
Exodus (Tyndale Old Testament Commentaries)
R. Alan Cole
Join Our Newsletter
connect
Information
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy Policy
Contact
  * Contact Us
  * Get Help
Work
  * Careers
  * Translators
© Copyright 2019 The Bible Project
crafted by clever.ly
For advanced bible reading tools:
Login or Join