Global (EN)

My Profile LOGOUT

Notification Message

There is no new notifications.
There is no new messages.
VIEW ALL
SMARTPHONE
HONOR View20
HONOR 8C
HONOR 10 Lite
HONOR Magic2
HONOR 8X
View More
ACCESSORIES
HONOR Watch Magic
HONOR Sport Bluetooth Earphones
HONOR Band4(Running)
HONOR Band3
View More
BRAND
ABOUT HONOR
NEWS
BLOG
ALBUM
Gallery
EVENT
SUPPORT
Login/Register
Message
My Profile
LOGOUT
Global

Recommend Search

RESULT()
+Load more

SELECT YOUR COUNTRY OR REGION

  * GLOBAL
  * ASIA PACIFIC
  * EUROPE
  * LATIN AMERICA
  * MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA
  * NORTH AMERICA
GLOBAL
Global - English
ASIA PACIFIC
India - English
Malaysia - English
Vietnam - Tiếng Việt
Myanmar - မြန်မာ
Indonesia - Bahasa
Thailand - ไทย
Australia - English
Philippines - English
Singapore - English
Bangladesh - English
China - 简体中文
Hong Kong - China 繁體中文
EUROPE
Bulgaria - Български
Greece - Ελληνικά
Netherlands - Dutch
Russia - Pусский
Czech - Čeština
Germany - Deutsch
Norway - Norsk språk
Spain - Español
Finland - Suomi
Hungary - Magyar Nyelv
Poland - Polski
United Kingdom - English
France - Français
Italy - Italiano
Serbia - Cрпски jезик
Sweden - Svenska
Turkey - Türkiye
Belarus - Pусский
Kyrgyzstan - Pусский
Slovakia - Slovenčina
Romania - Română
Ukraine - Український
LATIN AMERICA
Colombia - Español
Mexico - Español
MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA
Egypt - العربية
Farsi - فارسی
Pakistan - English
Iraq - العربية
Levant - العربية
South Africa - English
Morocco - Français
Middle East & Africa - English
Middle East & Africa - العربية
Saudi Arabia - English
Saudi Arabia - العربية
United Arab Emirates - English
United Arab Emirates - العربية
NORTH AMERICA
United States - English
Canada - English

BUY NOW

India

Notice

You are being redirected to a third party website. 0S
ok
Global Products Smartphone Honor 9N

Honor 9N


BEAUTY ALL AROUND


Beautifully Brilliant


Honor 9N is ready to lead the trend with the 5.84” upgraded Honor Notch FullView Screen. The phone is encased in a slim body sized to fit your hand, and comes in a delightful range of stunningly colorful mirror-like rear glass designs.


  * 5.84” Honor Notch FullView Display*1


  * Mirror-like Rear Glass


  * Youthful New Colors


5.84" Notch screen


Watch wide with the Honor 9N cutting-edge notch screen.
A 2280*1080 FHD+ resolution rate and a wide color range of up to 95%.
The screen restores the vivid and delicate color in the actual picture, and offers an immersive visual experience.


  * 19:9 FullView Display


  * 2280*1080
    FHD+


Casually Switch Notch Screen


Whether Notch or FullView, you can switch freely between 19:9 and 18:9 and maintain a large field of vision.


  * Switchable Notch screen


Youthful & Trendy Colors


A good-looking phone that shines from every angle, with a 2.5D glass display and a stunning 12-layered of mirrored rear design. To make it even more outstanding and attractive,
two new colors have been added to the Honor 9N family – Lavender Purple & Robin Egg Blue.


  * Mirror effect 2.0*2


  * Nano-scale optical coating*3


Color front and back


Easy to be a photographer with Honor 9N’s outstanding camera performance. Equipped with 13MP + 2MP dual lens rear camera, 16MP front camera and various modes, Honor 9N is ready for delicate portraits and vivid images both day and night.


  * 16MP Front Camera


  * 3D Beauty Effect


  * 13MP+2MP Dual Rear Camera


Upgraded low-light photography


Take selfies with the upgraded 16MP front camera with advanced sensitization technology. Photos become clear and sharper whether day or night. With the featured AR lens, the Honor 9N offers an easier and more joyful selfie experience.


  * 16MP ISO-enhanced front camera


  * Smart Portrait Mode


Natural beauty from every angle


3D stereoscopic light fusion algorithm with millimeter-level precision detection;
dot modeling of facial bone contours - more refined and three-dimensional photos.


Photography
has never been so easy


Professional bokeh, presenting the soft aperture effect.
Other fun features allow you to make professional photos at just one click: dynamic photos, shooting first and focusing later, smart recognition and good food mode.


  * 13MP + 2MP Dual rear camera*4


  * Fast PDAF


  * Hardware Level Bokeh Effect


Fast and Smooth Performance


The Honor 9N is equipped with the latest Octa-core processor and EMUI 8.0 system, which runs fast on 4GB large RAM, meaning the possibilities are endless for users, whether they’re running multiple apps at once or playing high-performance games.


  * 128GB Large Storage


  * Octa-core processor


  * Face Unlock


  * EMUI8.0


128GB Large Storage Phone*5


The ultra-large 128GB storage accommodates your needs in more photos, APPs, movies and TV series.


4GB Large Memory, Powerful and Smooth*6


4GB large memory supported by the octa-core processor,
optimized power consumption and smooth experience; multi-app functioning and faster gaming experience.


  * 4GB Memory


  * Octa-core processor


Face and Fingerprint Unlock


The new generation of multi-function fingerprint 4.0, unlocks your phone in 0.25 seconds*7. Fingerprint self-learning feature, always a step ahead.


  * Face Unlock


  * Multi-function Fingerprint 4.0


EMUI 8.0 Smart System


New generation of smart operating system provide a smarter interactive experience. In-depth framework optimization: Cache optimization and fragmentation management, eliminating the problem of smartphone lag after long usage periods.


Sustained Honor Quality


Rigid phone reliability test standard, ensuring Honor’s phone quality.


  * Passed Huawei phone reliability test standard 3.2


  * Increased reliability during TTF testing. We found the quality of mobile phone products is short, needs constant improvement to ensure overall product quality


  * The Honor Test System is more stable, reliable, safer and healthier.


  * Multi-dimensional and multi-level testing to ensure product quality.


Part of the reliability
test standards

Repeatedly turn on and off the machine (guaranteed many times after the switch machine is normal) 10,000 times                     
Repeated standby wake-up (guaranteed standby status is normal)                                    100,000 times                    
Power button                                                                                      200,000 times                    
volume button                                                                                     50,000 times                     
USB plug durability                                                                               10,000 times                     
Headphone plug durability                                                                         5,000 times                      
Fingerprint click durability                                                                      200,000 times                    
Touch screen click durability                                                                     800,000 times                    
Heavy pressure                                                                                    2,000 times                      
Heavy weight static pressure                                                                      70Kg                             
Temperature shock                                                                                 -40°C~70°C                       
Long-term high temperature and humidity                                                           Temperature 55°C/ Temperature 95%
Long-term temperature cycling                                                                     -20°C~55°C                       

*Tests were conducted in the Honor Lab.


Specifications

specs                                                                                              Honor 9N 
ID                            back                                                                 Glass    
            screen                  5.84" 19:9 Honor FullView Display                             
            color                   Midnight Black, Sapphire Blue, Robin Egg Blue, Lavender Purple
Camera                        front                                                                16M      
            back                    13M+2M                                                        
Performance                   CPU                                                                  Kirin 659
            RAM&ROM                 3 GB+32 GB, 4 GB+64 GB or 4 GB+128 GB                         
            Expandable Memory       Type: microSD Max Capacity: 256 GB                            
            battery                 3000mAh                                                       
            Charge                  5V 2A                                                         
            Wireless charging       N                                                             
            fingerprint             Fingerprint sensor                                            
            EMUI                    EMUI 8.0                                                      
            Face ID                 Y                                                             

*1: FullView screen is the current general concept in the industry. It is generally considered to refer to a mobile phone with a narrow border and a high screen ratio.


*2: Mirror effect is limited to Robin Egg Blue version.


*3: The optical film is limited to the Robin Egg Blue and Lavender Purple


*4: 13MP dual rear camera refers to the highest resolution that Honor 9N can achieve, the two lenses are 13MP and 2MP respectively.


*5: Also available in 32GB and 64GB. As the mobile phone system and pre-installed programs occupy part of the storage and storage size, the actual operating space and available storage are less than the nominal size.


*6: Refers to 4GB of running memory, which may vary depending on the version. Please consult your local retailer for details.


*7: Data based on Honor Lab testing.


Disclaimer


* The product pictures and screen contents in the above pages are only for illustration. The actual product effects (including but not limited to appearance, color, size) and screen display contents (including but not limited to background, UI, and picture) may differ slightly, please prevail in kind.


* The data in the above pages are theoretical values and all come from Huawei's internal laboratories. They are obtained under specific test environments (please refer to the specific instructions). Actual use may be due to individual product differences, software versions, usage conditions, and environmental factors. Please refer to the actual situation.


* In order to provide product information, specifications, and product features that are as accurate as possible, Huawei may adjust and revise the text descriptions, picture effects, and other content in the above pages in real time to match actual product performance, specifications, parameters, parts, and other information. Due to the real-time changes in product batch and production supply factors, there are no special notifications in cases where such modifications and adjustments are necessary.


ALWAYS STAY UPDATED


Subscribe for updates, special offers and more.


Thanks for your subscription


Follow HONOR


Share your idea


  * ABOUT HONOR

    Brand Event News Blog Album

  * PRODUCTS

    HONOR View20 HONOR 8C HONOR 10 Lite HONOR Magic2 HONOR 8X HONOR Play

  * SUPPORT

    Support Centre Declaration of Conformity

  * TECHNOLOGY

    GPU Turbo Kirin 980

CONTACT US


Monday - Friday

honorglobal@hihonor.com

Global


English

Site Map | Terms Of Use | Privacy | Cookies | Legal | 苏ICP备17040376号
Copyright © 2019 Huawei Software Technologies Co., Ltd.
We use cookies to improve our site and your experience. By continuing to browse our site you accept our cookie policy. Find out more.