Toggle navigation
  * Categories
      + Accessories
      + Software
      + Phones
      + Wearables
      + Inside Motorola
  * Contact
      + Press Contacts
      + Executive Team
      + Image and Video License Terms and Conditions
      + Images & B-Roll
  * Global
      + Latin America
      + Brazil
  * Search for:

* Thursday, April 19, 2018


Push your boundaries with the new moto g6 and moto e5

No Comments

Five years ago, we set out to address a gap in the market: quality smartphones that could do great things at a price even more people could afford. Phones that were designed for you that year, not last year’s models at cheaper prices.


When we launched the first moto g, we launched a phone that would become the best-selling smartphone in Motorola history. We continued to push the boundaries of the value equation even further with the debut of the moto e, a smartphone that was fully loaded and fairly priced. The moto g and moto e product families continued to offer the perfect combinations of features for consumers who didn’t want to compromise on quality, style or experience.


This year we continue the legacy with the newest generations of the moto g and moto e families. They have the innovations that matter most to you. They are smarter than ever and focus on display, design and power. They have the speed and power of Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ processors and run Android™ 8.0 Oreo™. They have great Moto Experiences that unlock AI opportunities.


The new moto g6 and moto e5 families are designed for you, with exceptional value.


moto g6 plus: Smart camera. Serious performance.


The new moto g6 plus is picture perfect in every way. Featuring a 5.9″, 18:9 aspect ratio, its Full HD Max Vision display delivers vivid colors and all the fine details. Capture the most creative shots using its advanced software, and focus in an instant with Dual Autofocus Pixel technology. Taking great pictures even in low light just got easier, thanks to its large f/1.7 aperture and 1.4um pixel size. But capturing those breathtaking moments is just the beginning, the smart camera system supports text scanning as well as landmark and object detection.


The moto g6 plus is available today in Brazil and next week in Mexico. It will roll out over the coming months in various countries in Asia Pacific, Europe and Latin America with a starting MSRP of €299 EUR. For full information and specifications, visit our website.


moto g6: Designed to impress. Built to create.


The moto g6 is designed to impress. Its 5.7″ Full HD Max Vision display delivers vivid colors and fine details, while its attention-grabbing 3D glass back creates a gorgeous shape and look that stands out among other premium smartphones. Advanced imaging software means studio quality portraits, artistic black and white shots, and hilarious face filters come to life through the dual rear 5MP and 12MP cameras. And it keeps getting better, instantly lock or unlock your phone with the multifunctional fingerprint reader.


The moto g6 is available today in Brazil and next week in Mexico. It will roll out over the coming months in various countries in Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America and North America with a starting MSRP of $249 USD. For full information and specifications, visit our website.


The new moto g6 will be available in the U.S. at Verizon Wireless, TracFone Wireless, Ting Wireless, and Republic Wireless. The moto g6 will also be available universally unlocked at retailers including Best Buy, Wal-Mart, Target, Fry’s, and B&H Photo.


The new moto g6 will be available in Canada postpaid at Videotron.


moto g6 play: Play today. Charge tomorrow.


The moto g6 play works as hard as you do, helping you set aside plenty of time to play. Its powerful 4000 mAh, all-day battery1 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge, giving you the ultimate peace of mind when out and about. Take it a step further with its powerful 1.4 GHz-core processor that gives you the speed to access photos, apps, and everything in between, without any stutter or lag time.


The moto g6 play is available today in Brazil and next week in Mexico. It will roll out over the coming months in various countries in Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America and North America with a starting MSRP of $199 USD. For full information and specifications, visit our website.


The new moto g6 play will be available in the U.S. prepaid at Boost Mobile, Cricket Wireless (moto g6 forge), Verizon Wireless, Virgin Mobile and postpaid at AT&T. The moto g6 play will also be available at Republic Wireless, Ting Wireless, and universally unlocked at retailers including Best Buy, Target, Fry’s, and B&H Photo.


The new moto g6 play will be available in Canada prepaid and postpaid at Bell Canada, SaskTel, and Virgin Mobile. The moto g6 play will be also be available postpaid at Videotron and offered to both prepaid and postpaid customers at Freedom Mobile.


moto e5 plus: Big screen. Big battery. Hello entertainment.


From dawn until dusk, the moto e5 plus is there for you. Make the most of even the longest commutes with its powerful 5000 mAh battery1 and 6” Max Vision screen. The moto e5 plus’ sleek 18:9 aspect ratio means it still fits perfectly in your hand and comes designed with a reflective wave pattern and a curved back that looks as great as it feels. Unlocking your phone has never been easier with just one touch of the fingerprint reader, located within the phone’s iconic Motorola logo. Even those crowded subway trains are no match for this home entertainment in the palm of your hands.


The moto e5 plus will roll out over the coming months in various countries in Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America and North America with a starting MSRP of €169 EUR. For full information and specifications, visit our website.


The new moto e5 plus will be available in the U.S. prepaid at Boost Mobile, Cricket Wireless (moto e5 supra), and postpaid at Sprint.


moto e5: See more. Do more.


The moto e5 is there to see you through your day. Even with a big 5.7” Max Vision display, the moto e5 still fits perfectly in your hand thanks to its 18:9 aspect ratio and ergonomically curved back. Do more with ease by unlocking your notifications, calls or home screen in an instant with its discreet fingerprint reader2 hidden in Motorola’s iconic logo. A dedicated microSD3 card slot makes room for more photos, songs and videos.


The moto e5 will roll out over the coming months in various countries in Asia Pacific, Europe and Latin America with a starting MSRP of €149 EUR. For full information and specifications, visit our website.


moto e5 play: Everyday. Extraordinary.


The moto e5 play is here to make the everyday extraordinary. Start your day with its vivid 5.2” HD display that can take you from outdoors to indoors. Its 8MP autofocus rear camera gives you sharp photos, even in low light conditions and its water repellent coatings keeps you safe from any accidental spills and splashes4. Having too much fun? Its dedicated microSD3 card slot means you’ll always have storage space and won’t miss that beautiful shot in those everyday life moments.


The moto e5 play will roll out over the coming months in North America. For full information and specifications, visit our website.


The new moto e5 play will be available in the U.S. prepaid at Boost Mobile, Cricket Wireless (moto e5 cruise), Verizon Wireless, Virgin Mobile and postpaid at Sprint. The moto e5 play will also be available through Xfinity Mobile.


The new moto e5 play will be available in Canada prepaid and postpaid at Bell Canada, chatr Mobile, Fido, Lucky Mobile, Rogers, SaskTel, and Virgin Mobile. The moto e5 play will be also be available postpaid at Videotron and offered to both prepaid and postpaid customers at Freedom Mobile.


Unlimited high quality storage
And as with all Motorola phones, Google Photos5 is the default gallery for all your photos and videos. So all your memories are automatically backed up, searchable and can easily be accessed, shared and edited from any device.


Check with your local PR rep for exact timing, availability and pricing by market. Images can be found here (you agree to our license terms when downloading images or video).


MOTOROLA, Stylized M Logo, MOTO and the MOTO family of marks are trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC. Android, Google and Google Photos are trademarks of Google Inc. Oreo is a trademark of Mondelez International, Inc. group.Qualcomm and Snapdragon are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated, registered in the United States and other countries. Qualcomm Snapdragon is a product of Qualcomm Technologies. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. © 2018 Motorola Mobility LLC. All rights reserved.


Disclaimers
Features, functionality, and product specifications vary by mobile carrier, and are subject to change without notice or obligation. Certain features, functionality and product specifications may be network dependent and subject to additional terms, conditions, and charges. Please review the product details for your specific mobile carrier prior to purchasing.


1All battery life claims are approximate and based on a mixed use profile (which includes both usage and standby time) under optimal network conditions. Actual battery performance will vary and depends on many factors including signal strength, network and device settings, temperature, battery condition, and usage patterns.


2Fingerprint Reader not available on certain models, please check with your seller to know more info.


3Supports up to 128GB microSD card, microSD cards sold separately. Content with DRM restrictions may not be able to be moved to the card.


4Advanced nano-coating technology creates a water repellent barrier to help protect against moderate exposure to water such as accidental spills, splashes or light rain. Not designed to be submersed in water, or exposed to pressurized water, or other liquids. Not waterproof.


5Free storage at high quality, requires Google account. Use of Google Photos is subject to the Google Photos Terms of Service available at http://www.google.com/policies/terms, the Google Privacy Policy available http://www.google.com/policies/privacy/


Share


Please


* Subscribe

Email *

Most Recent

  * A 5G first for moto z3
  * 9 Ways Motorola’s Changed in 90 Years – Before and After
  * Motorola + Android One
  * Baked For You: Android Pie Is Coming To Motorola
  * Motorola Connects You to 5G First
  * moto e5play: Performance and Protection with Android™ Oreo™ (Go edition)
  * Make your everyday extraordinary with the new moto z3 play
  * Push your boundaries with the new moto g6 and moto e5
  * 45 Years Calls for a Celebration
  * Changes in our leadership

Archive

  * ► 2018 (13)
  * ► 2017 (20)
  * ► 2016 (19)
  * ► 2015 (46)
  * ► 2014 (78)
  * ► 2013 (21)
  * Products
      + Moto Mods
      + Moto Z Family
      + Moto X Family
      + Moto G Family
      + Moto E Family
      + All Moto Phones
      + Moto 360 (2nd Gen.)
      + Moto 360 Sport
      + Cases & shells
      + Chargers
      + Motorola Home
  * Get Help
      + Product Support
      + Forums
      + Contact Us
      + Product Registration
      + Developers
      + Moto Financing
  * About
      + About Motorola
      + News
      + Careers
      + Privacy and Legal
      + Executive Team
      + Get Updates
  * Regional Blogs
      + Latin America Blog (Spanish)
      + Brasil Blog/G+

Follow Us


* USA | Change Country


© 2019 Motorola Mobility LLC. All Rights Reserved


MOTOROLA and the Stylized M Logo are registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC


All mobile phones are designed and manufactured by Motorola Mobility LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lenovo