* International
  * MIUI
  * Select Region
      + Mainland China
      + Hong Kong
      + Taiwan
      + Singapore
      + Malaysia
      + Germary
  * Sign in
  * Sign up
  * Mi account
  * Sign Out
My Orders
Mi Phones
POCOPHONE F1
Mi MIX 3
Mi Max 3
Mi 8 Pro
Mi 8
More
Mi MIX 2S
Mi A2
Mi 8 Lite
Redmi Phones
Redmi Note 6 Pro
Redmi Go
Redmi 6
Redmi 6A
Redmi Note 5A
More
Redmi Note 5A Prime
Redmi 5A
Redmi Note 5
Redmi 5
Redmi 5 Plus
Redmi S2
Mi TV
Mi Laser Projector 150''
Mi Box S
Mi TV 4 65''
Mi TV 3s 65'' Curve
Mi TV 3s 65''
Smart Devices
Mi Robot Builder
Mi LED Desk Lamp
Mi Band 2
Mi Sphere Camera Kit
Mi Drone
More
Audio
Mi Pocket Speaker 2
Mi Headphones
Mi In-Ear Headphones Pro
Mi Power Bank
5000mAh Mi Power Bank
10000mAh Mi Power Bank Pro
10000mAh Mi Power Bank
16000mAh Mi Power Bank
All Products Product Authentication

Quick Links


Redmi Note 6 Pro

  * Overview
  * Gallery
  * Specs

Four cameras, all-new AI portraits


Redmi Note 6 Pro is Xiaomi’s first smartphone with AI-powered quad-camera


20MP + 2MP AI Portrait Selfie


Dual Selfie camera


12MP + 5MP Dual camera


AI dynamic bokeh, Dual Pixel Autofocus


AI-based algorithms


27 different categories


AI portrait 2.0


6 new bokeh effects


4000mAh two-day battery


19:9 Full Screen Display


SnapdragonTM636


14nm octa-core KryoTM processor


Dual selfie camera. Brighter portrait


The first Redmi phone with a front facing dual camera. Offer amazing photo quality and perfectly lit selfies with its dual camera setup and 4-in-1 Super Pixel.


AI rear camera: Instant masterpieces


Even in low-light, photos remain bright and detailed.
The 12 + 5MP dual camera features massive 1.4μm pixels that capture more light,
producing brilliant photos in low light;
Dual Pixel autofocus enhance a high quality picture while drastically improving focus speeds


AI Dual camera
Natural background blurring


1.4μm large pixels
Perfect shot in low-light conditions


Dual Pixel Autofocus
Capture brilliant moments

The thinking camera: Smart AI

The rear dual camera's AI is capable of detecting 27 types of scenes instantly. Adding 6 different kinds of lens flare effects to give the photos a dream-like quality. Capture brilliant photos intelligently.


  * AI dynamic bokeh


    Add swirls and shapes to your bokeh lights with our AI dynamic bokeh


  * AI scene detection


    Automatic optimizations capture vast scenic beauty


The AI dreamscape and AI super-resolution photography features have not been enabled in the initial batches of the phone for sale, and the update MIUI website (www.miui.com) for feature updates for the current stable version of the MIUI.


Superior configuration
Better performance


We thoroughly optimized MIUI for use with the Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ 636 octa-core processor for strong, perfect performance.


High capacity battery
Uninterrupted performance


The 4000mAh high-density battery stays charged longer so you won't need to keep charging.


*Note：Endurance test results are obtained from Xiaomi laboratory data


A sleek design
and great hand feel


The 19:9 Full Screen Display naturally curves into the phone to provide a wide view that fits perfectly in your hand

A wider view
19:9 notched display
Larger screen
6.26 inch
More clarity
FHD+

More on


Redmi Note 6 Pro

  * 3-choose-2 SIM slot
  * |
  * Rear fingerprint sensor
    
  * Max 256GB Vfat microSD
  * |
  * smart PA

See Specs >

Information about this product's configuration and images of the motherboard as well as other related images on this page should be taken as in reference to the model; 4000mAH battery refers to the typical output value of the Max 3 battery. Endurance test results are obtained from Xiaomi laboratory data. Screen to body ratio may vary based on the method of measurement used. All data is obtained from testing and calculations from Xiaomi laboratories; Information on the Snapdragon™ 636 upgrade can be found at the Qualcomm® official website:https://www.qualcomm.com/products/qualcomm-snapdragon-636-mobile-platform. Unless otherwise indicated on the Redmi Note 6 Pro product page, all data comes from Xiaomi Laboratories, product design specifications and supplier data. The testing data may vary slightly between different test versions and testing environments. All figures shown on the product page are for reference only and may not reflect the actual product.

close


Pre-order


Make full payment now and your product(s) will be shipped out within 1 week

  * Be the first to get it
    Pre-order to secure signature Mi product(s)

  * Available to ship within 1 week
    Purchase and make payment now. Expected to ship within 1 week

  * Delivery address cannot be changed
    To minimize scalper activities and protect the interests of Mi fans, delivery address cannot be changed

  * Price cannot be changed
    In the event of product price adjustment prior to delivery, price of paid orders will not be affected


I have read and agreed to the Xiaomi Online Pre-order Terms & Conditions

Cancel Confirm

Notify me when stocks arrive


Leave us your email address so we can notify you once stock is available!


Please enter a valid email address.

Confirm

Arrival Notice



WE'LL NOTIFY YOU WHEN STOCKS ARRIVE


This product has been added to your Notification List. If stocks arrive within 30 days, we will use your contact details to keep you updated.

Close

Let's stay in touch


Get updates on sales specials and more

Thanks. You're on our email list for special offers. The email address is invalid.

Follow Mi


We want to hear from you!

SHOP AND LEARN Mi MIX2Mi A1Mi 6Product Authentication ABOUT US WarrantyXiaomiPress & MediaUser AgreementPrivacy PolicyXiaomi BlogInvestor RelationsUser GuideIntegrity & Compliance CONTACT US EmailFacebook FOLLOW MI Twitter Google+ Facebook
Copyright © 2010 - 2019 Xiaomi. All Rights Reserved


Sorry


Not available in this area.



You are in line...


There are too many people rushing in at the moment, please stay with us.



Oh No! We are stuck!


There are too many people flooding in right now, please try again soon.


Retry