* Home

Why we curated these Xiaomi apps on Mi A1, an Android One phone

Sep 05, 2017
by Xiaomi Team

Today we announced the Mi A1 in collaboration with Google, the first Xiaomi device to run on the evolved Android One program.


As an Android One smartphone, Mi A1 comes with a software experience designed by Google, offering users a streamlined and secure Android phone that stays current over time with OS upgrades. It also comes with the most popular Google services built-in, such as free, unlimited high quality storage from Google Photos.


At the same time, we carefully curated four Xiaomi apps on Mi A1. Why did we choose these four apps?


Mi Camera app


At the beginning of our partnership with Google, we selected a model with flagship-level features that would showcase Xiaomi’s philosophy — bringing innovation to everyone. Mi A1 incorporates a dual-camera configuration similar to that in Mi 6, our latest flagship device, with wide angle and telephoto lenses for added effect.


The Xiaomi camera app on Mi A1 provides a full dual-camera experience. The two lenses allow Mi A1 to calculate what is in the foreground and what is in the background, creating a depth-of-field effect called “bokeh” that typically requires a DSLR lens to achieve, allowing the user to create beautiful photos that really make the subject stand out.


But there is one major difference between the Mi A1 and Mi 6. On Mi A1, all the photos will be stored in Google Photos and include free unlimited high quality storage.


Mi Remote app


Before introducing this app, here are some fast facts.

  * Xiaomi is much more than a smartphone company. We also make consumer electronics and that’s where our Mi Ecosystem strategy comes into play.
  * Xiaomi is able to offer a wide array of smart home products, by investing and incubating in 89 companies so far.
  * Xiaomi has become the world’s largest smart hardware platform. There are over 60 million connected devices to Mi Ecosystem’s IoT platform.

Mi Remote exists within Xiaomi’s array of Mi Ecosystem products, an assortment of smart home gadgets geared toward consumers. Mi A1 includes an IR blaster, which, when paired with the Mi Remote app, can easily control many Xiaomi products around the house. Mi Remote also supports hundreds of other home appliances, acting as a universal remote in the palm of your hand.


Just open the app and point it at a TV or any other appliance that uses an IR remote, and follow the instructions on the app to pair. Once paired successfully, you can use Mi Remote to turn your TV on, control the volume, change channels, and if you’re using a Mi TV, even control the on-screen menu.


Mi Store app


The Mi Store app will be curated on Mi A1 devices in India, Hong Kong and Taiwan. This app enables users to search, browse and buy Xiaomi hardware products, including smartphones and Mi Ecosystem products, depending on availability per region. It supports multiple payment options and can track your order delivery status.


In fact, in India, our Mi Store app is the #1 free shopping app on Google Play. It has over 20 million installs and over 100 million visits every month as per August 2017.


Feedback app


From the day Xiaomi came into existence, we’ve been all about listening to our users. Our Mi Fans play a large role in the products we make and are a key pillar in the philosophy of our company. To make it easier for fans to connect with us, we created the Feedback app. Whether you have an idea about how to make an app better, faced a bug, or just want to leave a comment, the Feedback app is the easiest way to get in touch.


We wouldn’t be where we are without our fans and their generosity in communicating with us, and it’s no exception with Mi A1.

Tags: Camera, Mi Ecosystem, Smartphones

MIUI 10 Global Stable ROM comes!

Check out now!
Sep 18, 2018
Xiaomi Team

Rise of our e-commerce: an efficiency evolution

Xiaomi has the will and determination to revolutionize the industry’s cost-efficiency.
May 18, 2018
Xiaomi Team
Newer Posts
Older Posts

Recent Posts

  * Xiaomi releases Redmi Go smartphone at Php 3,990
  * [NEWS] Xiaomi launches new cross-border e-commerce platform ShareSave
  * Xiaomi announces dual core five-year strategy of Smartphone & AIoT
  * [News] Redmi now an independent brand

Tags

AI Android Art Business model Camera Cloud Consumer products Craftsmanship Design Designers Dual-camera setup efficiency Engineers Full screen display Gallery Globalization Glossary Google India Indonesia Internet services IoT Laptop Lei Jun Lifestyle Localization Mi Ecosystem Mi Fans MIUI MIUI themes Mobility News Ninebot Oculus Partnership Personal mobility Photography POCOPHONE Qualcomm Smartphones Smart toys Smart TV sub-brand Technology VR

A cool company needs cool engineers

https://youtu.be/Qwj9XTsyPvc?loop=0

Ninebot Plus and our future mobility

https://youtu.be/k41t_Lxo0Qo?loop=0

We offer smartphones, and toothbrushes

https://youtu.be/3hIxfGoNuLg?loop=0

【Gallery】Two facets: technology and art

September 2017
M     T  W     T  F  S  S 
« Aug    Oct »
      1  2     3 
4     5  6     7  8  9  10
11    12 13    14 15 16 17
18    19 20    21 22 23 24
25    26 27    28 29 30   
Copyright © 2017. All Rights Reserved.