Share
Tweet
Pin
Share
  * Photo
      + Explore The DSLR
      + Photo Tips
      + Photoshop Tips
      + Reviews
      + Articles
      + Make Money
      + Digital Photography
      + Digital Cameras
      + Camera Accessories
      + Courses
  * Video
      + Videography
      + Aerial Video
      + Video Tips
      + New to Video?
      + Video Cameras
      + Video Lenses
      + Video Books
      + Video Articles
  * PhotoBlog
    ArticlesBusinessInternetPhotography
    Corporate Headshot Photography Tips
    Instagram Videos & How to Change the Thumbnail
    Find the Shutter Count for Your Canon DSLR
    The Importance of Video (For Me)
    Canon EOS 5D Mark IV
    Drones on Dragons Den
    David Bowie – Never Play to the Gallery
    Go Pro Stock Figures Falling Further in 2016
    Planning Your Future With Photography
    Macro Commercial Work
    Instagram Videos & How to Change the Thumbnail
    Can You Get Photoshop on the iPad
    Yoast SEO Bug – Important!
    Best WordPress Themes for Photographers
    Building Websites for Photographers
    Can You Get Photoshop on the iPad
    Nikon Coolpix P1000 With 125X Zoom Lens (24-3000mm Equiv)!
    Trigger Your Camera Remotely and Get Creative
    Panasonic GH5 Sample Photos with Canon Lenses
    Lexar CFast Memory Card
      + Articles
      + Business
      + Internet
      + Photography
  * VidBlog
    AerialVideography
    Drones on Dragons Den
    DJI Mavic 2 Pro or Zoom?
    The Importance of Video (For Me)
    Lume Cube Review
    DJI Mavic Pro vs DJI Phantom 4
    DJI Osmo Pocket Stabiliser
    DJI Mavic 2 Pro or Zoom?
    Nikon Coolpix P1000 With 125X Zoom Lens (24-3000mm Equiv)!
    Comica CVM-VM10 II Microphone
    Review of the Sirui P-324S Monopod
      + Aerial
      + Videography
  * Reviews
    AccessoriesCamerasGadgetsLensesLightingNew ReleasesSmartphoneSoftwareTechnology
    Best Place to Buy Pocket Wizard Transmitters
    Comica CVM-VM10 II Microphone
    Review of the Sirui P-324S Monopod
    Energizer Ultimate (AA) Lithium Battery Test
    Canon 2X Extender Mark III Review
    New Lumix S Series
    Fujifilm X-T3 Mirrorless
    Panasonic Full Frame Mirrorless Camera
    Canon EOS R Mirrorless System
    Nikon Mirrorless Camera Announcement 2018
    DJI Osmo Pocket Stabiliser
    Go Pro Hero 7 Has Landed
    Trigger Your Camera Remotely and Get Creative
    Canon 2X Extender Mark III Review
    Lume Cube Review
    Metabones Firmware Update 2.7 for Panasonic GH5 and Canon EF Lenses
    Metabones Speedbooster EF to M43 Mount
    Panasonic GH4 Zoom Range
    New Nikon 800mm F5.6, Drool!
    Canon EF50mm 1.4 Lens Review
    Best Place to Buy Pocket Wizard Transmitters
    Lume Cube Review
    Lume Cube Life Lite on Kickstarter
    The Lume Cube is Here!
    Aputure LED Lighting
    Olympus OM-D E-M1X Announced
    DJI Osmo Pocket Stabiliser
    New Lumix S Series
    Go Pro Hero 7 Has Landed
    Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Review After 1 Month!
    Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Review After 1 Month!
    Can You Get Photoshop on the iPad
    Yoast SEO Bug – Important!
    27.09.17 – Panasonic GH5 Firmware Update 2.0
    Metabones Firmware Update 2.7 for Panasonic GH5 and Canon EF Lenses
    Find the Shutter Count for Your Canon DSLR
    Energizer Ultimate (AA) Lithium Battery Test
    Samsung Galaxy Note 7
    DJI Osmo "Handle Only" Now Available
    The Evolution of Stabilisation
    Does the DJI Phantom 2 Charge the Go Pro?
      + Accessories
      + Cameras
      + Lighting
      + Gadgets
      + Lenses
      + New Releases
      + Software
      + Technology
  * Learn
    CoursesDigital ImagingRamblingsTraining
    How to Sell Your Photos Online
    What Equipment is Needed to Shoot Stock Photography?
    Photographer David Bailey, “The 60’s Never Ended”
    3 Day Wedding Photography Course
    West Country Photography Walkabout
    Vegas Pro 14 - Layout and Interface
    Adobe Camera Raw 9.8 Now Available
    Photoshopping (Grading) for Video
    Macro Commercial Work
    Adobe Photoshop and Premiere Elements 12 Bundle Edition
    Drones on Dragons Den
    Panasonic Full Frame Mirrorless Camera
    Best Place to Buy Pocket Wizard Transmitters
    Nikon Mirrorless Camera Announcement 2018
    Best Autofocus Settings for the Panasonic GH5
    Best WordPress Themes for Photographers
    Best Autofocus Settings for the Panasonic GH5
    Vegas Pro 14 - Layout and Interface
    Proxy Editing with the 5D Mark IV and Sony Vegas
    How to Sell Your Photos Online
      + Courses
      + Training
      + Digital Imaging
      + Ramblings
  * Blog
      + Blog
      + Sponsored Blog Post
      + About Us
      + Sitemap
      + Firmware/Updates
      + Adobe Updates
      + Newsletter
          o Back Issues
  * FREE COURSES
      + Home /
      + Blog /
      + Product Reviews
      + / Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Review After 1 Month!

    Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Review After 1 Month!

    New Releases
    Product Reviews
    Smartphone
    By Nick / 19th September 2018
    Share
    Tweet
    Pin
    Share

    A Smartphone powerhouse with more features than you can shake an S-Pen at!


    The Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Smartphone was released just a few days before the iPhone Xs Max hit the web. Do I regret buying the Galaxy Note 9 without waiting for Apple's announcement? Do I still like Note 9 after a month of extensive use? Read on and watch my video review to find out...


    ​Update 21.09.18​


    ​Samsung have now added an update to Bixby where you can set it to require two taps to activate. That should definitely save a lot of time with regards to "misfires" : )

    Quick Navigation
    Overall Score
    For
    Against
    Samsung Galaxy Note 9
    Main Features
    My Thoughts on the Samsung Galaxy Note 9
    Samsung DeX
    As a Photographer
    Time Lapses, Moving Time Lapses, Hyper lapses
    Stills Photography on the Samsung Galaxy Note 9
    Auto (HDR On)
    RAW JPEGS
    RAW Edited and Converted to JPEGS
    More RAW Samples from the Samsung Galaxy Note 9
    2X Optical Zoom
    Dual Aperture
    Live Focus
    Panorama Mode
    Food Mode
    Sample Image Gallery
    Video on the Samsung Galaxy Note 9
    Sample 4K 60p Video Clips
    Super/Slow Motion
    Regular Slow Motion
    Image Quality
    The Rest of the Phone
    S-PEN 7
    Water Resistant
    Intelligent Scan Unlock with Eyes or Face (or Finger)
    Power! Qualcomm Snapdragon 845/Exynos 9810
    Final Thoughts
    Samsung Galaxy Note 9
    Sign up to our Newsletter
    Inatek Bluetooth Speaker Review
Overall Score        
​Handling            
Features             
​Storage             
Camera (Stills)      
​Camera (Video)      
​Sound/Audio Quality 
​Display             
​S-Pen               
​Value for Money     

    For

      + Display
      + Battery life
      + Camera features
      + Storage
      + S-Pen (for me anyway)
      + Build quality
      + Audio/Sound

    Against

      + Bixby (make it re-assignable Samsung)
      + No HDR video
      + Price

    I have now been using the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 since its launch in the UK on 24th August 2018. These are my thoughts after some pretty heavy use.


    I did order the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 a couple of years ago but during my pre-order status, they started blowing up. Therefore, I ordered the Samsung Galaxy S7 instead and used that as my main phone (or my main "driver" lol...you kids ; ) for two years!


    You see, I tend not to upgrade that often as I like to wait until something comes along that blows me away. Plus I spend enough on camera and video gear as it is.


    Samsung Galaxy Note 9


    The Samsung Galaxy Note 9 was the one that blew me away enough to spend £900 on a Smartphone! "Sorry for not telling you dear...I know the kids need school clothes...yes, it IS a lot of money...yes, it IS for work...I love you..." ; )


    I have looked at a few phones recently including the iPhone X* and nothing has really tipped me over the edge. However, a mere 3 weeks before my O2 contract was due to renew, along came the Note 9.


    *Note: Since writing this, the iPhone Xs Max was announced but for me, doesn't match, or even come close to the features of the Galaxy Note 9.


    I read up, I watched various YouTube videos and almost instantly knew I wanted this phone.


    Main Features

      + Display: 6.4-Inch Super AMOLED 2960x1440
      + Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon 845 (USA), Samsung Exynos 9810 (Outside of USA)
      + Operating System: Android 8.1 Oreo, Samsung Experience 9.5
      + Storage: 128GB/512GB (expandable with MicroSD up to 2TB)
      + RAM: 6GB/8GB (depending on storage above)
      + Primary Rear Camera: 12MP Super Speed Dual Pixel, OIS, f1.5 or f2.4
      + Secondary Rear Camera: 12MP, OIS, f2.4 Telephoto Lens
      + Front (selfie) Camera: 8MP, f1.7, auto focus
      + Connectivity: Wi-Fi 802.11ac MIMO, 1.2Gbps (Cat-18) LTE, Bluetooth 5.0 LE
        ANT+, NFC, GPS, Glonass
      + Audio: Stereo Speakers, Dolby Atmos, Adapt sound, 3.5mm Headphone socket
      + Battery: 4000mAh
      + Charging: Quick Charge 2.0, Wireless Charging
      + Water Resistance: IP68
      + Security: One Touch Fingerprint Sensor, Iris Scanner, Face Recognition, Samsung Knox
      + Dimensions and Weight: 161.9 x 76.4 x 8.8 mm, 201g

    My Thoughts on the Samsung Galaxy Note 9


    Having the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 really is like having a PC in your pocket! It has so much on offer so let's break down each main feature...


    Samsung DeX


    As I mentioned "PC in your pocket" above, let's start with Samsung DeX. Using a USB-C to HDMI cable, you can use Samsung DeX to connect your Galaxy Note 9 to a PC monitor, HDTV or projector.


    Note: Previous Samsung flagships had this option but you needed the Samsung DeX station and pad and those came in at $69 each. Now you just need a cable.


    It's not going to simply mirror your screen like most modern Smartphones, which it also does by the way. What DeX does is turn your Galaxy Note 9 into a fully functioning computer with "Windows-like" appearance.


    You can use your entire Galaxy Note 9 screen as a touch pad and add a Bluetooth keyboard and mouse for the best experience. You can:

      + Watch videos (up to 4K supported)
      + Play games on a huge screen
      + Show off your slideshows and home videos
      + Mirror your usual Note 9 screen
      + Add as many of your apps to the display for easy access
      + Surf the web, use Word and a lot more...

    Genius!


    When you consider that you have up to 8GB or RAM and 1-2TB of storage available on the Note 9, this really is a PC in your pocket!


    You'll need either of these to utilise Samsung DeX:

      + USB-C to HDMI Adapter (if you already have a HDMI Cable)
      + USB-C to HDMI 4K Cable (connects Galaxy Note 9 Directly...I bought this one)

    As a Photographer


    As a photographer and film-maker, I absolutely love the Samsung Galaxy Note 9. I cannot see any reason for taking my usual, hefty camera gear when going out on a family day or generally hanging out.


    In a way, this phone is quite upsetting for someone like me. Why?


    Well, the sheer amount of things it can do sometimes makes much more expensive camera gear I own redundant! I hope people that are looking at this phone realise that.


    Time Lapses, Moving Time Lapses, Hyper lapses


    When coupled with the amazing Freevision Vilta M Smartphone stabiliser, the Galaxy Note 9 turns into a true imaging powerhouse. I can do incredibly stable moving time lapses and walking hyper lapses without the need for my usual, hefty gear (see main review video).


    Equipment I own and use for professional time lapses:

      + 1
        Canon EOS 5D Mark IV - £3,500
      + 2
        Rhino Ultimate Slider - £1,600
      + 3
        Heavy Duty Manfrotto Tripod - £500

    Now all I need to get similar (although not as high quality) results:

      + 1
        Samsung Galaxy Note 9 (with all the extras) - £900
      + 2
        Freevision Vilta (M) for the superb app with time lapse features and stability for Hyperlapse's - £130
      + 3
        Mini Tripod for base - £40

    Quite a difference!


    Stills Photography on the Samsung Galaxy Note 9


    Right out of the box, the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 offers a hell of a lot to the photographer in you.


    You have the standard "auto" camera which does a great job. The Pro mode is excellent allowing you to shoot RAW and JPEG images simultaneously. This is a big deal because the RAW files hold so much more information and are more "workable" during edit.


    Auto (HDR On)

    The images below were all taken in AUTO mode. Click for larger copies.


    ​JPEG in Auto Mode 1


    ​JPEG in Auto Mode 2


    ​JPEG in Auto Mode 3


    RAW JPEGS


    The following JPEGS were all automatically taken as a backup when shooting RAW images. Click for larger images.

    ​JPEG taken with RAW 1


    ​JPEG taken with RAW ​2


    ​JPEG taken with RAW ​3


    RAW ​​Edited ​and ​Converted to JPEGS


    The following JPEGS were all taken ​from RAW images after editing. Click for larger copies.

    ​JPEG from edited RAW 1


    ​JPEG from edited RAW 2


    ​JPEG from edited RAW 3


    ​My immediate observations are that ​the HDR JPEG's straight out of Auto mode are good​. They are a little mushy though when viewed closely. There appears to be a "line" around the sharp edges that kind of emphasises the contrast. However, the lack of grain is good albeit at the cost of super sharpness.


    The JPEG's taken at the time of shooting RAW are better. Even though there is no HDR here, when viewed at 100%, there is better sharpness and clarity. More akin to a normal JPEG from a DSLR or mirrorless camera.


    The JPEG's taken from an edited RAW are ok but I maybe rushed them a little trying to better the HDR JPEG's. In doing so, a fair bit of noise was introduced. Despite the grain, the sharpness from the RAW image and JPEG taken at the same time is better than in the HDR Auto JPEG's.

    ​More RAW Samples from the Samsung Galaxy Note 9


    ​I just thought I would show you three more images taken from RAW files in optimum conditions outside. This will hopefully show you the quality of stills from the Galaxy Note 9. Please click for larger images (2000px).


    ​Settings: 350th/Sec, f2.4, ISO 100


    ​​350th/Sec, f2.4, ISO 100


    ​​350th/Sec, f2.4, ISO 100


    Coming from a Smartphone, I think they are superb!

    2X Optical Zoom


    Well, it's not really a zoom as such but a secondary telephoto lens camera. Anyway, who cares, it works really well and the image quality holds up at both focal lengths. It gives 2x "optical" zoom, not digital, for optimum image quality.


    Hover over image for normal and 2x image from same place. On mobile? Tap inside and out of pic.


    ​Dual Aperture


    Doesn't sound a lot but the additional light can come in really handy for low light shots.


    Live Focus


    This actually works pretty well. The best thing about it is that you can adjust the background blur and save multiple copies of the same image. You can also revert the shot back to a standard wide angle image.


    Overall, I was pretty happy with the results. Really nice portraits but just keep an eye on the background when shooting. The image below was from Auto mode which may have applied a little too much sharpening for my liking. However, it's still a nice effect.


    ​Image Strictly Copyright Nick Stubbs 2018


    ​Panorama Mode


    The Panorama mode is superb and does exactly what you would expect. Again, coupled with the Freevision Vilta M (or similar stabiliser), this is improved even more. Click image below for larger version and please note, actual image is 9184 x 3792 pixels!


    ​Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Panorama Sample


    ​Food Mode


    I wasn't sure what this really was or if it was any good when reading up on the Note 9. However, it is better than I thought. All it does is blur the edges and focus on the central portion of the scene but it does it well. Obviously you can use it for more things than just food and it works nicely.


    ​Click for ​larger​ image - Quick ​snap of ​my ​lunch ​mid-review : )


    ​When you add in things like:

      + ​AR Emoji (fun for creating a ton of Emojis of yourself)
      + ​HDR (rich tone) mode
      + ​Timer (self timer with settings of 2, 5 or 10 seconds with one or three photos taken)
      + ​Show palm to take photos (selfie more only)
      + ​Bixby Vision (detects what you are looking at and gives a ton of info. Things such as notable locations nearby, similar images etc)
      + ​Face shape correction
      + ​Flaw detection (get notified when someone blinks or looks blurry, smudges on lens etc)
      + ​Motion Photo
      + ​Grid lines
      + ​Location tags
      + ​Voice control
      + ​Hold camera button to: (take picture/take burst shot/create GIF)
      + ​Press volume key to: (take pictures/record video/zoom/system volume)

    It​'s crazy just how good this camera is. When you download some of the third party camera apps available, it gets even better. All images below were taken in AUTO mode with HDR set to ON. Overall, I am impressed but prefer JPEG's from RAW images...


    Sample Image Gallery
    - Swipe left/right to see more

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    ​Video on the Samsung Galaxy Note 9


    Wow.


    One of the biggest complaints about £2-3k mirrorless cameras coming out right now is that they don't shoot 4K 60p. Cameras like the Canon EOS R and Nikon Z7 only shoot 4K up to 30fps.


    The Samsung Galaxy Note 9 shoots 4K 60p.


    Sample 4K 60p Video Clips

    ​It can actually shoot (with the rear camera):

      + ​UHD (60fps) 3840 x 2160
      + ​UHD (30fps) 3840 x 2160
      + ​QHD 2560 x 1440
      + ​FHD (60fps) 1920 x 1080
      + ​FHD (30fps) 1920 x 1080
      + ​FHD (240fps) 1920 x 1080 in Slow Motion Mode
      + ​16.5:9 2224 x 1080
      + ​1:1 1440 x 1440
      + ​HD 1280 x 720 (30fps)
      + ​HD 1280 x 720 (960fps for 0.2 or 0.4 seconds in Super Slow Motion Mode)

    ​​​​​​​Note: UHD (60fps), UHD, QHD and FHD 960fps) resolutions don't support Tracking AF and Video Effects. Also, video stabilisation isn't available in UHD (60fps) and 1:1 resolutions.


    The front camera will shoot video with resolutions of:

      + ​QHD 2560 x 1440
      + ​FHD 1920 x 1080
      + ​18.5:9 2224 x 1080
      + ​1:1 1440 x 1440
      + ​HD 1280 x 720

    ​Note: QHD resolutions don't support Video Effects. Plus video stabilisation isn't available in QHD and 1:1 resolutions.


    ​You then have slow motion which by default is not activated.


    To active standard slow motion on the Samsung Galaxy Note 9, you need to:

      + ​Go to camera
      + ​Enter the camera settings (cog)
      + ​Go to "Common" - Edit camera modes
      + ​Select "rear camera"
      + ​Check the "slow motion" option

    Super/Slow Motion


    Now this is where it gets fun.


    You can get 2-2.5x slow motion in 4K by slowing down your 4K60p footage in post production.


    Like the Samsung Galaxy S9 and S9+, at 1280 x 720 resolution, you can shoot up to a whopping 960fps. However, on those phones, you were limited to just 0.2 seconds of super slow motion.


    On the Galaxy Note 9, you can shoot 0.4 seconds of super slow motion footage. That equates to 12 seconds in real time when played back as opposed to 6 seconds with the S9 and S9+.


    Note: When shooting super slow motion for 0.2 seconds (6 seconds playback), you get the full 960fps. However, when shooting for 0.4 seconds (12 seconds playback), you only get 480fps but in my tests, I could hardly see a difference!


    Regular Slow Motion


    Regular slow motion is limited to 240fps which is still pretty damn good! However, you can film for as long as you like and it is recorded in full HD 1080p. Lovely!!! You can see examples of this in the video at the top of the page.


    Image Quality


    Obviously the image quality from the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 doesn't compare to my DSLR's or even mirrorless cameras. However, for general family or holiday use and also for web use, it is incredible.


    I was pretty impressed with the low light capabilities from such a small sensor. Samsung have been working hard on this and it shows. Video quality in very low light doesn't fare so well though as it becomes more mushy the darker it gets.


    The Rest of the Phone


    Pretty impressive already right? Well, let's now look at the rest of the Samsung Galaxy Note 9.


    S-PEN 7


    7 Funky things that the Samsung S-Pen can do that your BIC ​Biro can't!


    I have to start with this because I love it. I bought the Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 (2014 edition) back in 2013 which also has a stylus. I also use that when I use that particular tablet and like it.


    However, the S-Pen on the Galaxy Note 9 is exceptional. The sheer amount of features and functionality is mind-boggling.


    You can see some handy tips with the S-Pen in my other video on hidden features. For now, here are a few cool things it can do.

      + 1
        ​Screen Off Memo

    I think I use this the most. I don't use it all the time because the memo stays on the home screen until I complete everything on it.


    What I do is write down a list of things I need to do either this week or immediately and pin it to my lock screen. To do this, simply take the S-Pen out, scribble away, hit the pin button and it's done.


    A copy will be added to your lock screen and a copy sent to your Samsung Notes. Brilliant!

      + 2
        ​Play/Pause/Skip Music

    ​Imagine lying on the sofa, headphones on, listening to your favourite playlist with the phone on the table. Rather than hoisting your carcass all of two feet to press pause or skip, you can simply hold the S-Pen and click to your heart's content.


    Note: It will actually work from up to 30 feet away.


    A single click will pause/play and a double click will skip to the next song.

      + 3
        ​Take photos remotely

    ​Yes, you can now take photos using the Bluetooth S-Pen by:

      + ​Removing S-Pen
      + ​Click and hold to start camera
      + ​Click once for photo using rear camera
      + ​Two clicks to switch to selfie camera

    ​​​​All good stuff but in reality, may not be used that often...we'll see.

      + 4
        ​Super quick charging but still works for some things with no charge

    ​The S-Pen charges in a mere 40 seconds and that is enough for 30 minutes standby battery life or around 200 clicks. You can still use the pen as a normal stylus even when there is no power left to:

      + ​Draw
      + ​Jot notes
      + ​Annotate screenshots
      + ​Translate text
      + ​Send live messages etc

    ​​​​​You just can't use the Bluetooth button.

      + 5
        ​Run a PowerPoint Presentation

    ​This is sure to impress your peers, bosses and clients. Simply plonk your sweet looking Galaxy Note 9 on the table, connect to a screen or projector, whip out the S-Pen and start jabbering on whilst clicking your little pen. Use it to move about presentations or even images in your gallery (single click next photo, double click previous item).


    Actually, it's pretty cool.

      + 6
        ​Hold down button to...

    ​As mentioned above, by default a long press on the S-Pen when you remove it will open the camera. However, you can assign this function to a number of tasks:

      + ​Create Note
      + ​Smart Select
      + ​Screen Write
      + ​Live Message
      + ​Bixby Vision (this will tell you what things are when you point the camera at them)
      + ​Translate
      + ​Magnify (cool)
      + ​Glance (cooler)
      + ​View all Notes
      + ​PENUP
      + ​Colouring...

    Pah, I could be here all day. You can actually use this feature to open any app on your phone from Fortnite to Adobe Lightroom. Whatever you use most with the S-Pen in your hand would be a good.


    Photoshop Express would be a good choice for photographers if you use that a lot.

      + 6
        ​Glance

    ​I mentioned this somewhere before but Glance is very cool.


    Let's say you are writing a blog entry or post about say...Prime Video and what's trending. You are using your Samsung Galaxy Note 9 and are fed up with having to switch from app to app (Word to Prime Video for example).


    By activating Glance, you can minimise the Prime Video app but have it available on the screen as an icon of sorts. As you type or write in Word, you can simply hover the S-Pen over the icon to temporarily open the Prime Video app and do your research.


    As soon as your S-Pen leaves the screen, the Prime Video app will minimise again. Very cool.


    ​​Note: You can see this in action in the main video review at the top of this page...


    Of course, there are so many things the S-Pen can do but this is just a taste for you.


    Water Resistant


    Rated at IP68, the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 is up there with the rest of the high end, flagship phones. It will survive being submerged in over 5ft of water for up to 30 minutes but don't expect, or even bother trying to use it underwater. Who you gonna call?


    Saying that...I may re-assign the volume buttons to operate the camera and try a little underwater photography : )


    Intelligent Scan Unlock with Eyes or Face (or Finger)


    As well as the rapid and better placed fingerprint scanner for unlocking, you now have two more options at hand. The Samsung Galaxy Note 9 will scan your face and eyes now for a much more rapid opening of the phone.


    First, it will scan your face. If that fails to unlock the Note 9, the system will then scan your irises. If both fail at this point, Intelligent Scan will try to authenticate your identity using a combination of the two. It does this is the blink of an eye!


    This is particularly useful if your hands are wet or if you are wearing gloves (skiing, winter etc).


    If your eyes are covered by sunglasses in the summer on the other hand, simply use the rear fingerprint scanner. All very handy and intuitive!


    So, you can unlock your Galaxy Note 9 with a fingerprint, PIN, password, pattern, swipes or full facial scan. For me, the iris scan is the best (and most secure) option plus it works through my glasses!


    ​Note: I tried using a photo of myself for security purposes but couldn't get it to work : )


    Power! Qualcomm Snapdragon 845/Exynos 9810


    The Samsung Galaxy Note 9 is a powerful thing. It is fast and quite capable of easily running multiple apps without seriously overheating or slowing down.


    For example, my Inspire 1 drone has always been flown using the iPad Mini 4 which I found to be perfect. However, as DJI evolved their Go App, so did the need for more processing power. Therefore, the app now "groans" under the weight and I get intermittent blackouts and lag. Not for a huge amount of time but enough to piss me off.


    Using the Galaxy Note 9 to fly, I get no lag, no blackouts, just great flying!


    Final Thoughts


    I was a little concerned about buying the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 when I did. For one, it is a lot of money. Secondly, Apple were about to announce the new iPhone.


    I have owned iPhones before but soon got bored with the lack of personalisation. I still have the old iPod Touch 4G and it almost looks the same as today's iPhone with regards to the overall look and layout.


    When the iPhone Xs and Xs Max were announced, I breathed a sigh of relief. I don't think they even came close to what the Galaxy Note 9 has to offer. Don't get me wrong, I really like the speed and reliability of Apple tech but...meh.


    I thought they may do something revolutionary like add the possibility of using external memory. Maybe even put back the headphone jack but no. They don't even have a fingerprint scanner now...


    Samsung Galaxy Note 9


    So after my 4 week honeymoon period is over, how am I liking the Note 9? I love it. That's not justification for the big spend in any way, the phone is simply amazing.


    To have so much functionality in a feature rich environment in my pocket...that's incredible. ​Couple that with:

      + ​The amount of personalisation available​
      + ​Additional storage​
      + ​Power​
      + ​Camera and everything else​...

    You'll never be bored with ​the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 accompanying you.


    ​Note: Friends, family, life experiences and fresh air are still better then any phone : )


    ​If you enjoyed this review, please share and comment below...it really helps! Thanks...

    Share0
    Share +10
    Tweet0
    Pin0
    Share0

    ​Sign up to our Newsletter


    ​If you enjoyed this review, please subscribe to our newsletter below. We don't spam, we won't inundate you with loads of emails. We'll just send newsletters now and again with exciting news, tech reviews and new training. Thanks.


    More Articles For You


    Olympus OM-D E-M1X Announced

    Jan 24, 2019 / By Nick

    DJI Osmo Pocket Stabiliser

    Nov 29, 2018 / By Nick

    Go Pro Hero 7 Review

    Nov 21, 2018 / By Nick

    New Lumix S Series

    Sep 25, 2018 / By Nick

    Go Pro Hero 7 Has Landed

    Sep 20, 2018 / By Nick

    Fujifilm X-T3 Mirrorless

    Sep 08, 2018 / By Nick
    About the author

  + Nick


    Professional photographer and videographer for more than 30 years and all round photography, video and gadget geek. Shooting ground and aerial wedding, stock and commercial photography (and video) in the UK and Europe.Please note: As an Amazon Associate and affiliate for other companies, I earn from qualifying purchases from some links used in this website. You don't pay any more but the commissions earned means I can keep adding to the website and offer free training etc. I.e. they pay my costs. Thank you.

    ←Previous post Next post→

    Subscribe


    Latest Posts

      + Olympus OM-D E-M1X Announced
      + Corporate Headshot Photography Tips
      + Nikon Firmware Updates for 2019

    Featured Video

      + New Releases

      + Olympus OM-D E-M1X Announced


      + DJI Osmo Pocket Stabiliser


      + New Lumix S Series


      + Go Pro Hero 7 Has Landed


      + Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Review After 1 Month!


      + Fujifilm X-T3 Mirrorless


      + Panasonic Full Frame Mirrorless Camera


      + Canon EOS R Mirrorless System


    Search Blog


    Copyright 2019 FM Ltd Author: Nick Stubbs. All rights reserved.

      + Home
      + Contact
      + FAQ’s
      + Privacy
      + Affiliate Disclaimer
      + Sitemap
      + Newsletter
      + Advertise
      + About
  + This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Reject Read More
    Privacy & Cookies Policy