Blog
  * Auto
  * Awok Talk
  * Electronic world
  * Gaming
  * Miscellaneous
  * Phone World
  * Photography
  * Recreational Chat
  * Software
  * Tech Buzz
  * Videos

Samsung Galaxy Note 9 – Release Date, Price, Specifications & Features

July 31, 2018

Samsung’s Galaxy Note 8 was and still a major hit among gadget lovers. After its huge success, the company has decided to offer its follow up this year, hoping it will be as much success as the previous one, or even more. Currently, several sources are giving out details of this upcoming Samsung smartphone including its features and technicalities. Besides, it is also being rumored to surpass the Apple iPhone X in terms of innovation, popularity, and technology as well. On the other hand, Samsung is also being told to cancel the Galaxy Note range. If this happens to be true, then the brand will certainly sign off by offering this device with the most amazing features.


Hence, let us check out the new updates about Samsung Galaxy Note 9 price in UAE and Saudi Arabia, including its deals in Dubai and other information.


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Specifications


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 is another smartphone from the brand which is slated for 2018 release. Considering the success of Note 8, there are high anticipations of the phone to have top-notch features. Some of the rumored Samsung Galaxy Note 9 specifications include the 6.4-inch OLED display screen, long lasting battery of 4000mAh, Android 8.1 Oreo OS, Exynos 9810 Octa chipset, Face ID technology and many more.


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Design & Display:


Samsung Galaxy Note 8 was one of the biggest devices we have seen so far. But the latest Samsung Galaxy Note 9 rumors give us a hint that the upcoming smartphone will be bigger than the previous model. We might see a bigger screen on the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 probably of 6.4-inches. However, some reports also suggest that its screen will be of the same size as the previous model. Developed under the code name “crown”, it is said to feature the 4K OLED display screen with high pixel resolution as well as pixel density. The brand is rumored to be working on introducing a new kind of screen too. Coming to the design, Samsung will mostly eliminate the size bezels while retaining thin bezels at the top and bottom. A recently filed patent hints at a smartphone featuring an all-screen display with tiny holes for IR sensors and front camera. Based on this we can say that the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 will be the first to have an all-screen display with no bezels. Besides, the rumors of it featuring an under-display scanner looks unlikely, as the scanner is noticeable in the rear.


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Fingerprint Sensor:


In Samsung Galaxy Note 8, we have seen both the face unlock system as well as the fingerprint scanner. When the news of Galaxy Note 9 came out, there were talks about offering this feature in the device. There were also many Samsung Galaxy Note 9 rumors hinting at the device to have an under-display fingerprint sensor. However, this speculation may not be true as the brand is still working on the technology for quite a long time now. Instead, we can see the sensor present in the rear end just like the Note 8. Because of some technical issues, the South Korean company may not position the fingerprint scanner beneath the screen in its upcoming phone. Since two years, Samsung has been trying to bring this under-display but couldn’t do it yet because of issues relating to accuracy, manufacturing, and quantity. Hopefully, the brand may introduce it next year.


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Face Recognition Technology:


Apple has stunned the entire mobile and tech industry by introducing the Face ID feature in the iPhone X. This is one of the most creative and innovative features ever seen on a smartphone. Using this feature, the upcoming smartphone can be easily locked or unlocked with the user’s face. Considering this, many Android phone makers including Samsung are trying to bring in a similar aspect. Several rumors are already doing rounds that the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 may have this feature. Most of its smartphones such as Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus are bestowed with an iris scanner, which scans the user’s eyes for identity purposes. Even the upcoming Samsung Galaxy S9 and S9 Plus may come with this feature. However, the brand has not introduced a proper 3D facial recognition technology in its smartphones yet.


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Camera:


Advanced cameras are currently one of the highly-preferred features in smartphones. Samsung has proved to be one of the best in terms of optics specifications through the Samsung Galaxy S8 and Samsung Galaxy S8 Plus models. Even the Note 8 impressed us with amazing picture clarity and quality all the time. As the dual-camera set up is currently trending, we can expect the same in Galaxy Note 9 too. Also, it might turn out one of the best camera smartphones of this year. According to sources, the upcoming Galaxy Note 9 is expected to have a dual 12MP plus 12MP primary camera and at the front, it might sport an 8MP sensor probably with f/1.7 aperture. It may include a few more aspects such as optical image stabilization, LED flash along with an improved depth-of-field, zoom and low-light image capture, 2x optical zoom, dual video call support, auto-HDR, autofocus, dual pixel PDAF and more.


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Bixby:


One of the interesting aspect seen in the latest Samsung smartphones like Galaxy S8 and Samsung Galaxy Note 8 is the Bixby virtual assistant. Not only it translates the languages and pictures but also recognizes things and assists in accomplishing tasks. As this is Samsung’s one of the highlighting aspects, we can anticipate it in the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 to come with the Bixby 2.0 version with a few more improvements in its functionality.


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Battery Life:


The battery life on Samsung phones as in the Galaxy Note 8 usually lasts more than a day. The latest rumors suggest that the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 may have a powerful 4000mAh battery. Meanwhile, another report hints at a 3850mAh battery, which is still bigger than in the Note 8. However, regardless of the capacity, we can anticipate this handset to carry an improved battery that will last for at least two days with regular use of apps, games, social media pages and other activities. And it is most likely to get the fast charging support using the Quick Charge 2.0 technology along with wireless charging feature. In addition to these, the latest Samsung DeX might also be on the offer, thus enabling users to use their handsets as desktops.


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Release Date In UAE & Saudi Arabia:


The brand has finally made an official announcement of the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 release date in Dubai and UAE. The release date is said to be on August 9, 2018 and the company seems to have started preparations for the launch event already.


Samsung Galaxy Note 9 price in UAE & Saudi Arabia:


The Samsung Galaxy Note 9 price in UAE & Saudi Arabia might start from around AED 4515 and SAR 4610 respectively. Meanwhile, this expected price might go till AED 5360 and SAR 5470 for the higher variants. However, this is not the actual Samsung Galaxy Note 9 price in UAE and we will get the confirmed price only when the phone is out.


So that is all about the upcoming Samsung Galaxy Note 9 handset. Samsung Galaxy S9, Galaxy S9 Plus purple as well as Samsung S9 Plus black are the popular handsets it has launched this year during the Mobile World Congress trade show in February. Read on “Samsung Galaxy S9 – Specifications, Price & Release Date – What’s In Store For Us?” to get more information about the upcoming smartphone in UAE. Currently, the brand is coming up with a new idea of foldable mobiles, which might be out by the end of 2018. Besides, there is also the Galaxy S10, which might show up probably at the end of this year or in 2019 and Samsung Galaxy Swing With 52MP DSLR Camera features, Samsung Note 9 VS IPhone X Design, Specs & Price Comparison.

Rating: 2.7, from 10 votes.
Please wait...

Related Post:

  * Samsung Galaxy Note 9 LEAKED? Everything You Need To Know
  * Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Leaks Hint At A Large Display…
  * Samsung Galaxy Note 9 To Be Released Date And Where To Buy?
  * Samsung Galaxy Note X – Rumors, Leaks & Features
  * Samsung Note 9 Expected Launch in End of 2018
  * Samsung Galaxy Note 9 VS Galaxy S9 Plus –…
9 Comments
Share
  * Twitter
  * Facebook
  * Linkedin
  * Google Plus
  * Pinterest
  * Yoututbe
  * Instagram

Previous Next


Recent Posts


  * Best Apps For iPhone XS , XR And iPhone XS Max 2019


  * Top 5 Best FrostWire Alternatives for Android


  * Apple To Unveil iPad Mini 5 And Entry Level iPad In Early 2019


  * Top 5 Best Greenify Alternatives 2019


Comments (9)


  * game master youtube hacker says:

    October 14, 2018 at 4:09 am

    I simply must tell you that you have an excellent and unique site that I must say enjoyed reading.

    No votes yet.
    Please wait...

    Reply


  * Farheen says:

    August 31, 2018 at 9:45 am

    Galaxy Note 9 is such an amazing device, it has the phenomenal camera set up with incredible features. The dual camera set up at the back with the lens of 12 MP and the other supporting lens is also 12 MP with the optical zoom which is an exceptional thing so the main camera is going to give a remarkable result. Face recognition technology, fingerprint scanner, Bixby, full-screen display all the latest features are packed in this device. This is indeed the best smartphone of 2018.

    No votes yet.
    Please wait...

    Reply


  * MOHAMMAD ADEEL says:

    August 6, 2018 at 7:29 pm

    i need this phone .how much in saudia arabiya

    No votes yet.
    Please wait...

    Reply


      + Khawar Iftikhar says:

        October 3, 2018 at 8:19 am

        Samsung Galaxy Note is available in most of the popular online shopping websites in UAE , check out https://bit.ly/2Rktybu

        No votes yet.
        Please wait...

        Reply


  * farhan says:

    July 31, 2018 at 4:49 pm

    Samsung galaxy note 9 was in rumors since 2017.it has amazing features and it is anticipated to have Bixby virtual assistant. Not only it translates the languages and pictures but also recognizes things and assists in accomplishing tasks. As this is Samsung’s one of the highlighting aspects,Samsung Galaxy note 9 may include a few more aspects such as optical image stabilization, LED flash along with an improved depth-of-field, zoom and low-light image capture, 2x optical zoom.

    Rating: 4.5, from 2 votes.
    Please wait...

    Reply


  * Maher says:

    July 27, 2018 at 1:45 pm

    How much price in ksa

    No votes yet.
    Please wait...

    Reply


  * Muhammad Mujibur Rahman says:

    June 4, 2018 at 2:50 am

    I want buy one pice Samsung Glaxy Note 9

    Rating: 3.2, from 3 votes.
    Please wait...

    Reply


  * Inayatullah says:

    April 10, 2018 at 12:26 am

    How much price in ksa

    Rating: 4.1, from 4 votes.
    Please wait...

    Reply


  * ibrahim says:

    February 20, 2018 at 9:13 am

    ineed one phone

    Rating: 4.1, from 1 vote.
    Please wait...

    Reply


Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked


Awok Deals

HTC 3.5 Liter Aluminium Pressure Cooker, HTC-305-PC
AED 1 AED 149
Royal Mark Battery Powered Portable Cordless Sewing Handheld Sewing Machine
AED 1 AED 89
IIK Collection Business Style Chrono Design Broad Stainless Steel Analog Watch For Men, KL49, Silver
AED 15 AED 129
Wireless BT 4.1 Audio Receiver Music Box Adapter Hands-free Car Kit with Microphone AUX Out for Headphone Speaker Car Stereo Home V5118B, Black ...
AED 12 AED 25
Global Kitchen 2.0 Liter Stainless Steel Electric Cordless Kettle, GK-168
AED 19 AED 69
High Quality Ultrasonic Electronic Pest Repeller Indoor for Lustrating Mouse Bug Mosquito Insect,S495
AED 19 AED 39
Real Doctors Posture Support Brace For Men & Women, Free Size, CY
AED 25 AED 80
Reoona 10 Pcs Casserole Set With Glass Cover Lid, 662DG, Black
AED 29 AED 129
Search for: Search
Popular Posts

  * PUBG Mobile Android MOD APK 0.10.9 Latest Version
  * Oppo F11 Pro Triple Camera with 30 MP Selfie Camera
  * Xiaomi Redmi Note 7 – 51MP 4 DSLR Camera With 8GB RAM/512GB and Price
  * Cartoon HD APK 2018 Latest Version Free Download
  * Adobe Photoshop CS6 Serial Number – Photoshop CS6 Full Crack Download
  * Lucky Patcher 7.3.9 APK Latest Version Is Now Available For Download
  * Clash of clans Mod APK v11.49.9 Latest Version Download
  * Huawei P30 – Release Date, Price & Full Specifications
  * Xiaomi Mi A3 5G – Price In UAE, Specifications, Features, Launch Date & Images
  * Xiaomi Mi Max 4 First Look, Release Date, Specifications & Price

Most Recent Posts


Best Apps For iPhone XS , XR And iPhone XS Max 2019


Top 5 Best FrostWire Alternatives for Android


Apple To Unveil iPad Mini 5 And Entry Level iPad In Early 2019


Top 5 Best Greenify Alternatives 2019


9 Things To Set Up On Your iPhone XS Or XS Max


iPhone XR, iPhone XS Max, and iPhone XS Tips and Tricks


CSR 2 Racing Game Hack, Cheats, Tips and Tricks


Monster Legends Breeding Guide with Hacks


Huawei Y9 2019 Announced With Display Notch And Quad Cameras


Get A Chance To Buy 1 AED iPhone XS


© Copyright 2019 AWOK.com, All Rights Reserved.