* Videos
  * Reviews
  * Unboxing
  * Hands-On
  * Her
  * Auto
  * Gaming
  * Features
      + Explainers
      + Camera Shootouts
      + 24 Hours Series
      + Giveaways
  * Events
      + MWC 2018
      + CES 2018
      + IFA 2017
      + MWC Shanghai 2017
      + Computex 2017
      + MWC 2017
  * Regional
      + India
      + Malaysia
      + Philippines
      + Singapore
  * About
      + The Team
      + Blog
      + Reviews Policy
      + Careers
      + Contact
Connect with us

* GadgetMatch


Xiaomi Redmi 5A Review: Best smartphone below $100?

  * Videos

      + Olay showcases how tech can help you get better skin


      + A glimpse at the smart kitchen’s wireless future


      + Make personalized face masks with Neutrogena’s MaskID


      + Checking out the Samsung Family Hub: What is the Communal Screen?


      + Can this wand really make my dark spots disappear?

  * Reviews

      + Honor View 20 review: No notch, no problem


      + Black Mirror’s Bandersnatch: A Discussion


      + Are Sheertex pantyhose truly indestructible?


      + HP Envy x360 Review: Gaming power in a small package


      + How the Huawei Watch GT made me believe in smartwatches

  * Unboxing

      + Mystery Unboxing: Badass gaming accessories


      + Apple iPad Pro (2018) Unboxing


      + Xiaomi Mi Mix 3 Unboxing: Comes with what?!


      + Porsche Design Huawei Mate 20 RS Unboxing


      + Huawei Mate 20 X Unboxing and Hands-on

  * Hands-On

      + Honor 10 Lite Hands-on: Toning it down


      + Volo’s new hair dryer will allow you to blow dry hair without any wires


      + Kate Spade drops the Scallop Smartwatch 2: Hands-on with the new watch


      + Huawei MateBook 13 Hands-on


      + OPPO A7 Hands-on: A cheaper yet better-looking alternative

  * Her

      + Rimowa iPhone cases are a thing and they look too cute


      + Louis Vuitton’s Tambour Horizon smartwatch gets an upgrade


      + ASUS ZenPower PD: A power bank that will charge your laptop on the go


      + Honor announces smartwatch collaboration with designer Vivienne Tam


      + Honor View 20 will come in special edition Moschino models

  * Auto

      + Suzuki Philippines unveils a redesigned Ertiga MPV


      + Nissan’s I2V technology merges two worlds while driving


      + The Audi Aicon is something to look forward to


      + Bell shows off its flying taxi at CES


      + Nissan introduces new Leaf e+ with longer range

  * Gaming

      + ASUS brings RTX-powered Strix II gaming laptops to the Philippines


      + There is a PUBG-like game available only for Xiaomi users


      + AMD reveals next-generation 7nm graphics card


      + Tom Clancy’s The Division 2 won’t be on Steam


      + Alienware Area-51m is a gaming laptop with desktop upgradability

  * Features
      + Explainers
      + Camera Shootouts
      + 24 Hours Series
      + Giveaways
  * Events
      + MWC 2018
      + CES 2018
      + IFA 2017

          o Top 5 lifestyle tech picks from IFA 2017


          o Sony Xperia XZ1 and XZ1 Compact Hands-On


          o GadgetMatch Awards: Best of IFA 2017


          o DJI showcases Mavic Pro Platinum, Phantom 4 Pro Obsidian, update for Spark


          o Moto X4 comes with dual rear cameras and Amazon Alexa

      + MWC Shanghai 2017
      + Computex 2017
      + MWC 2017
  * Regional
      + India

          o There is a PUBG-like game available only for Xiaomi users


          o Honor 10 Lite with 24MP camera and gradient back hits India


          o Samsung teases the new Galaxy M series, to fight off Xiaomi in India


          o Apple’s sales absolutely collapses in India


          o Not just gadgets: The Chinese have taken over the app ecosystem as well

      + Malaysia
      + Philippines

          o Honor 10 Lite goes on roadshow sale with freebies and raffle prizes


          o ASUS brings RTX-powered Strix II gaming laptops to the Philippines


          o Suzuki Philippines unveils a redesigned Ertiga MPV


          o Honor 10 Lite: Price and availability in the Philippines


          o #ArtistsofSEA: Celebrate the diversity of Southeast Asian art

      + Singapore

          o Honor View 20 makes its way to Southeast Asia


          o #ArtistsofSEA: Celebrate the diversity of Southeast Asian art


          o LG V40 ThinQ: Price and availability in Singapore


          o Samsung Galaxy Note 9 now comes in beautiful Alpine White


          o 5 video games shortlisted for esports at SEA Games 2019

  * About
      + The Team
      + Blog
      + Reviews Policy
      + Careers
      + Contact

Reviews


Xiaomi Redmi 5A Review: Best smartphone below $100?


Missing only a couple of features

  * Share
  * Tweet

* Published


on

March 19, 2018

By

Marvin Velasco

When it comes to gadgets, a common piece of advice is to spend more for a better package. That’s the case for most brands, but Xiaomi has different plans.


If you’re not yet familiar with Xiaomi’s Redmi series, you’re missing out. This line of smartphones always offers incredible bang for one’s buck without skimping on the features most consumers need.


The other great thing about Redmi handsets is the price range; you can purchase one anywhere from US$ 70 to US$ 300, and they’re guaranteed to perform well. For this review, we’re looking at a phone at the bottom of that barrel.


For INR 4,999 in India or PhP 4,590 in the Philippines, you can get yourself a Redmi 5A and call it a day. It’s priced like an affordable feature phone but has all the features of a typical smartphone — well, almost all.


Let’s take closer look at the Redmi 5A.


Does it look and feel good?


It’s as generic as it gets for an entry-level phone with a 5-inch display. There are thick bezels on the top and bottom to accommodate the earpiece, selfie camera, and the navigation buttons. The back has a single camera with an LED flash, as well as a rear-facing loudspeaker.


Go to the very top, and you’ll find an audio port and IR blaster for controlling other compatible devices. Beneath all this is the micro-USB port for charging (but not of the fast kind). To the right we have all the buttons: a volume rocker and power button.


Nothing special for sure, but it’s when you open up the card trays on the left side that you’ll appreciate the phone. It can house two SIM cards and one microSD card for storage expansion. This instantly makes the Redmi 5A an excellent choice for those who must have two mobile networks at once without sacrificing the extra storage.


All these are encased in a plastic body that doesn’t feel slippery, yet doesn’t feel that safe from accidental drops either. There’s some flexing when putting too much pressure on it, so sitting while it’s in your back pocket isn’t a smart move.


The only major omission is a fingerprint sensor. Without it, your choices for unlocking the phone are traditional means: inputting a secret code or pattern. Don’t worry — it’s still as quick as before fingerprint scanning became a thing.


Is it enough for multimedia and gaming?


Generic design aside, what you’re really after here is the internals. This is something Xiaomi nails each time with the Redmi line, and the Redmi 5A is no exception.


It comes equipped with a Snapdragon 425 processor, which is a pleasant surprise for a phone this affordable. You see, a phone easily gets judged at first glance by how well its chipset performs, and most — if not all — devices at this price point settle for unreliable, laggy chips. That’s not an issue here.


This is a decent lower-midrange Qualcomm SoC (system on a chip) that can handle everyday tasks with ease. It’s only when you overload the measly 2GB of memory that the phone begins to slow down. I noticed this while downloading multiple apps and surfing the web or watching videos at once. The phone’s system also regularly closes apps in the background to make room for newly opened ones, so jumping from one app to another is often delayed.


Speaking of overloading, the integrated storage has the same issue. With only 16GB of storage and 10.5GB of it being usable from a fresh start, it’ll get filled up fast. After setting up the phone, I was left with a little under 3GB, and I didn’t even start taking photos or videos yet. Fortunately, the triple-card slot enables microSD expansion without hesitation.


Once you get past all that and have a ready phone, the experience is so-so. Although the screen’s size feels just right at five inches, the resolution of 1280 x 720 pixels translates to somewhat dull visuals. The good news is that the panel gets bright when you max it out, and reading text under direct sunlight is doable.


Your gaming experience highly depends on the titles themselves. Games like Castle Crush and Asphalt Xtreme ran just fine with minimal stutters, but I had trouble running Final Fantasy XV: Pocket Edition even on the lowest graphics settings. What I appreciated, however, was that the speaker is placed at the back so I didn’t cover it accidentally while playing in the horizontal orientation.


How well does its cameras perform?


With a single 13-megapixel f/2.2 main camera and 5-megapixel f/2 selfie shooter, you can’t expect much from the Redmi 5A. This has been the case for the majority of Redmi phones, actually.


Here are some samples:




Poor lighting is the worst enemy of its cameras. Even a slight dip in the amount of daylight is enough to make the photos mushy from foreground to background. There’s an optional HDR mode you could turn on to improve the quality a bit, but you must keep both your hands and subject really steady, or else it’s a blur-fest.


The built-in camera app is decent and offers enough options to keep shooting simple yet feature-filled. For selfie lovers, a smart beautification mode is available to remove blemishes and produce smoother skin.


Can it last more than a day?


Digging a little deeper, it’s nice to know that Xiaomi was able to fit a large 3000mAh battery into this phone. That’s something you’d find inside larger, higher-end phones like the Samsung Galaxy S9.


But capacity isn’t everything; the way the phone utilizes the battery is what matters most. In this case, the Redmi 5A easily lasts over a day of moderate usage with enough juice to spare for breakfast the next morning. I can get as many as five hours of screen time on a single charge.


Lots of credit can be given to the efficiency of MIUI 9.2, which is the user interface this gadget comes with out of the box. Despite being based on the aging Android 7.1 Nougat version, it offers a lot of customization for notifications and app settings that help optimize the system to keep it snappy and efficient.


Sadly, charging this thing takes a while. Having been spoiled by the 1.5 hour full charges of other phones, waiting for the Redmi 5A to fully load up in 2.5 hours feels like an eternity. This is the price you pay for a large battery with no fast-charging tech.


Is this your GadgetMatch?


The Redmi 5A proves that sub-US$ 100 phones don’t have to suck. It’s such a decent overall performer that I sometimes forget how affordable it really is. Reliability is top-notch, and I appreciate the no-compromise approach to the triple-card tray and capable Snapdragon chipset.


If you can deal with slow charging and live without the fingerprint sensor, it doesn’t get much better than this for the price you pay. It’s a fantastic option for first-time smartphone users like young kids or those needing a spare, easy-to-use handset.


But, hold on. If you’re willing to shell out more cash, it may be wiser to go for a Redmi 5 or Redmi 5 Plus instead, depending on your region. They don’t cost that much more and offer extra features, such as a larger screen, better cameras, and fingerprint sensor.


Related Topics:featuredRedmi 5AXiaomiXiaomi Redmi 5A


You may like


  * Xiaomi teases the arrival of Android Go-powered Redmi phone


  * Xiaomi shows off foldable phone prototype


  * Pixel 3 and Galaxy Note 9 hailed as best selfie phones by DxOMark


Reviews


Honor View 20 review: No notch, no problem


Alternative to the Huawei Mate 20


Published


on

January 23, 2019

By

Marvin Velasco

If 2018 was all about smartphones adopting the notch, 2019 will be focused on eliminating the black cutout entirely. Brands like OPPO, Vivo, and Xiaomi jump-started the anti-trend by hiding the front camera behind sliders or pop-ups, but Honor has something more straightforward, and it’s on the flagship View 20.


There’s no standardized name for it yet — some call it a punch-hole camera and others named it hole-punch — but all you need to know is that the implementation is more visually pleasing than any form of notch.


For one, it’s much smaller than any other cutout and it’s placed in a more ideal spot — to the far left and not in between top-bar icons. In addition, the space around it is still LCD, eliminating any black space normally left behind by a notch.


Huawei and Samsung raced to get this type of phone out first, but even though Sammy launched ahead of the Nova 4 with the Galaxy A8s, it’s the Huawei sub-brand that brought it to international markets first. In addition, the View 20 is by far the most powerful of the three and arguably the most attractive.


While the Huawei Nova 4 looks a lot like the P20 Pro, the Honor View 20 goes for a more unique V-shaped pattern on the rear that shifts as you angle it differently towards a light source. Although it doesn’t help the ergonomics in any way, I can say that the phone is a pleasure to hold thanks to its curved glass rear.


The 6.4-inch 1080p LCD may seem overwhelming in size at first, but the tall aspect ratio helps provide a more manageable grip even for small hands. The fingerprint scanner’s rear placement is well-positioned, too. Combined with the fast face scanning, not once did I experience failed unlocking on the first attempt.


The View 20 is simply so enjoyable to play content on, whether it’s a movie from Netflix or game you’re addicted to. You’ll just have to deal with the different ways apps cover up the 4.5mm camera hole.


In some cases, the entire screen is filled up and you only have the black dot to ignore; other times, a big black bar can take up the entire edge, making the sides asymmetrical while viewing in landscape orientation. It’s not pretty, but you can get used to it.


Entire screen is utilized


Here are the asymmetrical black bars


You could argue that the placement isn’t ideal because it pushes the signal bar and notifications to the right, but Honor claims that this position is optimal. The basis is the Gutenberg Diagram, which says that eyes naturally fall to the top-left corner of an area called the primary optical area (POA). Eye motion then goes across and down to other sections. I’ll save my judgement for when I try Samsung’s upper-right positioning.


Design-wise, the only thing that really disappointed me was the lone speaker. Having gotten used to loud stereo speakers from recent smartphone reviews, going back to a cheap-sounding output to the right of the USB-C port feels like such a downgrade.


Fortunately, there’s a 3.5mm audio port for wired headphones; and if you already jumped on the wireless bandwagon, Bluetooth 5.0 is available for hassle-free audio. Both were vital to me in replacing the disappointing loudspeaker.


USB-C and the only loudspeaker


A rare 3.5mm port beside a set of sensors


The model I have is blessed with some of the best specs I could ask for in any smartphone to date: the same Kirin 980 chip found inside the Huawei Mate 20 series, a whopping 8GB of memory, and a total of 256GB of storage. Once you know how much this thing costs, you’ll be even more impressed.


Combined with Honor’s Magic 2.0.1 UI based on Android 9 Pie, this has to be one of the most fluid Android experiences for me. Of course, the software’s quirks are still present — such as the awkward double-press of the volume-down button to turn on the camera app and the lack of a swipe-up gesture to open the app drawer — but everything else from the updated volume adjustment to Digital Balance from Pie are available.


It goes without saying that the View 20 can tackle any app you throw at it, and thanks to the abundant memory and storage, you rarely have to worry about running out of space or having too many apps operating at once. It’s stable too, with no crashes for me so far. The navigation keys might randomly shift their location, but a restart always fixes that.


Yeah, they move to the left sometimes


As for gaming, GPU Turbo 2.0 is in place, applying itself to the following games: PUBG, Arena of Valor, Rules of Survival, Mobile Legends: Bang Bang, Vainglory, and Asphalt 9: Legend. I was only able to test and compare with Asphalt 9; the gameplay was certainly buttery smooth, but I can’t say if it’s due to the latest version of GPU Turbo or because the Kirin 980 chip is simply that fast.


It helps that liquid cooling is built in so the View 20 doesn’t throttle and slow down under heavy load. In fact, I noticed how cool the phone was while gaming. There’s only one spot near the rear camera that gets noticeably warm during gameplay, though not enough to stop me from playing.


The only other time the handset heats up is while charging; however, that’s only because it charges so fast. It comes with a 22.5W SuperCharge adapter that brings the unit from zero to 55 percent in 30 minutes, 94 percent in an hour, and a full charge with an additional 15 minutes. These are fantastic numbers, especially since the View 20 can easily last over a day of usage with six hours of screen-on time on a single charge.


What I would say is missing, however, is wireless charging. It may be Honor’s way of cutting down on costs, but it’s something I miss nonetheless after having it on the Mate 20 series.


Finally, I have to talk about the cameras. While you could easily mistake the front shooter as the highlight — it’s inside a screen hole with 25 megapixels to its credit — it’s the 48-megapixel rear camera and its partnered 3D ToF (Time of Flight) sensor that do most of the magic.


By default, the built-in camera app outputs at 12 megapixels using data from the 48-megapixel sensor. While this may seem like a downgrade at first, the pixel cramming actually improves the detail and sharpness you get out of each photo. This also keeps the file size down to a much friendlier number.


However, if you want to maximize the potential of the image sensor, there’s a 48MP AI Ultra Clarity option which combines multiple shots into a more detailed picture. It’s a lot like the night mode Huawei pioneered, except it’s for daytime scenarios.


I tried it a few times, and to be honest, it’s not that useful. It takes longer to complete an exposure and moving objects become blurry during the process. On a smartphone screen, you can’t even appreciate the 8000 x 6000-pixel photos. It doesn’t help that the camera app goes back to the default 12MP setting each time you restart.


There are other features that take advantage of the 3D ToF sensor, but they either aren’t available yet or are exclusive to the Chinese market. You aren’t missing out though if you’re simply after good-looking photos.


This slideshow requires JavaScript.


As usual, there’s an option to activate AI for smarter scene detection. This is something I normally turned off on other Honor/Huawei phones because of how often the artificial intelligence would wrongly recognize an object or slow down the processing, but the View 20’s application is surprisingly good at this.


Not only can it detect more than one scene at a time — simultaneously optimizing for outdoor, beach, and sunset, for example — there’s no delay before or after taking the shot. Of course, you may still adjust settings even while AI is on. There were times when I would rather turn portrait mode off so I could keep the background blur-free around my subject.


This slideshow requires JavaScript.


Is this your GadgetMatch?


With the Huawei P30 coming soon and new flagships arriving during Mobile World Congress next month, now’s not a good time to invest in a premium smartphone.


However, the Honor View 20 is jam-packed with so many high-end specs and features that it’s difficult to resist. With a starting price of EUR 569 for the 6GB+128GB variant, it’s a steal compared to the Mate 20 series’ asking price.


It lacks a few things, specifically dual speakers, wireless charging, and proper water resistance, but those are negligible shortcomings if you apply the workarounds: use headphones or a speaker, take advantage of the incredible wired charging instead, and simply don’t use your phone near a pool or toilet.


If this is the standard Honor is setting in terms of design, performance, and price at the start of 2019, rival brands have to stay on their toes. Honor isn’t messing around.


Continue Reading


Lifestyle


Black Mirror’s Bandersnatch: A Discussion


Read this article or not, it’s your decision 😉


Published


on

January 6, 2019

By

GadgetMatch

If you’re into watching movies and TV shows about science fiction, chances are you’ve already heard of or seen the show Black Mirror and its latest episode/movie/game called Bandersnatch. It’s available to stream on Netflix and watching it gives the audience a unique experience in a way that doesn’t follow a linear way of storytelling.


Instead, it gives you the power to choose (using your TV’s remote control, laptop, or smartphone) and decide what happens next in the story. In short, there are many directions the narrative can branch out to and every choice affects what will happen later on.


It’s not the first time a story has been told in this approach, but the implementation in an online streaming service and how the events unfold throughout the episode goes beyond the norm in so many levels. If you’ve seen Bandersnatch, we’re sure there’s a lot you want to talk about. And so do we! This article is a discussion on what we liked and didn’t like.


Of course, there will be spoilers throughout. If you haven’t seen the episode, you may stop reading and watch it first. Or you can just continue on and join in on the fun. All up to you. It’s not like someone from the future is controlling your decisions, right?


Were there any expectations before watching Black Mirror‘s Bandersnatch?


Dan: I have to admit that I was hyped for Bandersnatch. It became sort of a tradition for me to binge watch a new season Black Mirror during the holidays. So, when the news broke about an interactive Black Mirror film, I had high expectations. I expected it to be more complex, but I think it was just enough.


Rodneil: When I played the first three hours of the PlayStation 4 exclusive Detroit: Become Human,my initial thought was that it felt like binging a Netflix series with more involvement from you as the audience. In that regard, I expected Bandersnatch to feel like a game, and it did.


Kevin: I expected it to be a dark, heavy episode since it’s what Black Mirror excels at. As for the interactive experience, I’ve recently tried out Netflix’s Minecraft Story Mode and had a taste of how the system works so I already had an idea of how things will go.


What was your first ending?


Dan: I took the initial offer immediately… It wasn’t done in good judgment. 👀


Rodneil: Same with Dan, haha. My gut said to not take the offer but logically, it felt like a reasonable option. After choosing this “wrong path,” I followed my gut the rest of the way.


Kevin: I took the prescription pills prescribed by my shrink (I’d like to think I’m obedient that way) instead of flushing them down the toilet which resulted in getting a 2/5 stars rating of my game. I went for a different timeline, of course, and corrected that.


Did you make good decisions throughout the story?


Dan: Not really. Instead of thoroughly thinking about which option I choose, I always had the thought that I can repeat and amend a mistake. Also, I thought of it as a video game wherein I have to make sure I explore everything before jumping to the next level.


Kevin: I didn’t want to “shout at dad” let alone “kill dad.” So those decisions led me to a dead end. Then I remembered this is Black Mirror and it probably wanted me to go for a darker path. It did, haha!


Rodneil: I’m not sure about good but I did go with what I thought was the smarter or weirder option.


Do you think your decisions reflect your personality?


Dan: It should. Although, I think I wasn’t properly watching it the first time, so my first choices should not be counted.


Rodneil: For the second ending I got, I would say it did. My usual approach in choose-your-adventure games is to not think too much about my choices and just go with my gut.


Kevin: It did. And as I said earlier, some of those choices led me to a dead end. Others made things more interesting like taking on the therapist Street Fighter style. That was fun to watch.


What was your favorite part from the episode?


Dan: I’d say my favorite part was one of the proper endings where the young Stefan went with her Mommy and they got into the train accident. It was just a flashback, but it affected the current timeline of adult Stefan and he died while sitting on a chair inside his doctor’s office. Being part of the Black Mirror franchise, I find this ending to be the best as it embraces the series’ suspenseful and dark atmosphere.


Kevin: There were actually a lot for me. The conspiracy theories Colin delivered while they were tripping on LSD was so convincing thanks to his acting.


The path where you choose to explain Netflix to Stefan, for me, was just so surreal since I could imagine myself telling someone from the 80s that I’m controlling a fictional character on a TV show. I bet hearing that from someone from the future would totally sound insane — and for us living in the present, it is the reality.


Also, that part when Stefan says something about making the audience think they have free will to choose but in reality, it’s still Stefan giving the scenarios and where they’re heading. It pretty much applies to us, too, thinking we have control over the entire episode when there’s actually a flowchart of things that dictate what we can and cannot do.


Lastly, I’d say I was blown away by how meta the episode can become. One ending goes to follow Colin’s daughter who is now adapting Bandersnatch for Netflix. We see her planning the choices for the actual episode and we’re given one last time to dictate what she does next. Eventually, she destroys her computer which then makes the show nonexistent. Brilliant.


Rodneil: Man, I agree with everything Kevin listed. I enjoyed Colin’s entire “free will” monologue and how meta it was when you’re asked to explain Netflix to Stefan.


Is there anything that you didn’t like about the story or experience?


Dan: As I have mentioned earlier, I was expecting a more in-depth viewer involvement. There were decisions made by the protagonist that I wished I was given the chance to choose. Also, it was not the strongest Black Mirror story. But, overall, Bandersnatch is a showcase of online entertainment. It may not be the most original, but the concept was put to good use.


Rodneil: Nothing in particular. I wasn’t expecting much coming into it. In fact, I didn’t expect the story to be good at all, but after watching, I thought it was a perfect first offering for this kind of format.


Kevin: Dan and I share the same sentiments on the episode not having the strongest story. I mentioned that I expected something heavy before watching it and though some of the endings were indeed dark, it’s not Black-Mirror-Season-One-Episode-One dark that will leave you dumbfounded by the end. I understand that they concentrated more on the interactive part and they did a fantastic job in its entirety.


Will this interactive technology change or affect how we watch movies and TV series in the future?


Dan: A big yes. Like with interactive books, however, it’s not for everyone and it’s not applicable to all titles. I’d love to see a couple of interactive films on Netflix every now and then, especially on the big screen. The genre of Black Mirror is perfect for interactive content, and maybe some other horror or suspense stories. Stretching this out to a series will take a lot of resources, but it’ll be grand.


Rodneil: It will change in that I think other streaming channels and even platforms like YouTube and Facebook will try to integrate this feature. It might be one way to curb piracy. I imagine it will be extremely hard to duplicate this experience. If more good titles make use of this interactive kind of viewing then more people might be enticed to actually pay for streaming services. We’re a long way away from that but this is definitely a step in the right direction.


Kevin: Of course. It has that element that you’re responsible for what happens to the character — whether something good happens to them or you get them killed. It has a different, more personal impact. Also, what Dan and Rodneil said.


Continue Reading


CES 2019


Are Sheertex pantyhose truly indestructible?


Will the tights survive?


Published


on

January 6, 2019

By

Isa Rodriguez

At CES 2019, Sheertex will be showcasing what is most definitely a dream come true for a lot of women: indestructible pantyhose.


Made using a special manufacturing technique from the same material as bulletproof vests, these tights are said to be able to withstand the everyday trauma of living life and more. 😉


I got my hands on a pair early so of course I had to put it to the test — yes, a stomp test, a zipper test, a strength test, and even a real-life stocking wear test. So, are these tights really indestructible? Watch to find out!


In case you’re having trouble viewing, watch HERE.


MORE ON CES 2019: GadgetMatch LIVE coverage


SEE SIMILAR STORIES: Her GadgetMatch


Continue Reading

Advertisement

Gadget Reviews

Reviews3 days ago

Honor View 20 review: No notch, no problem


Alternative to the Huawei Mate 20

Lifestyle3 weeks ago

Black Mirror’s Bandersnatch: A Discussion


Read this article or not, it's your decision 😉

CES 20193 weeks ago

Are Sheertex pantyhose truly indestructible?


Will the tights survive?

More Gadget Reviews
  * Latest
  * Popular
  * Videos
Accessories

Rimowa iPhone cases are a thing and they look too cute

News

Xiaomi teases the arrival of Android Go-powered Redmi phone

Accessories

Apple will launch headphones more expensive than Beats

Deals

Honor 10 Lite goes on roadshow sale with freebies and raffle prizes

News

Nokia 5 starts to receive Android 9 Pie update

Deals

Huawei P20 drops to incredibly low price

News

Huawei P30 Pro will have four cameras, leak says

News

This leaked case of the Nokia 9 confirms it’ll have penta-lens camera

Enterprise

PLDT permanently speeds up unlimited Fibr and DSL plans

News

Xiaomi’s Redmi Note 7 is a true bang for the buck smartphone

CES 2019

A glimpse at the smart kitchen’s wireless future

Accessories

Make personalized face masks with Neutrogena’s MaskID

Accessories

Can this wand really make my dark spots disappear?

Accessories

L’Oreal’s My Skin Track pH sticker will track your skin health in 15 minutes

Accessories

Clarisonic shows off new smart cleansing brush features


Trending

  * Galaxy S102 weeks ago

    Samsung’s cheapest flagship phone might be called the Galaxy S10E

  * Deals2 weeks ago

    Xiaomi is discounting select phones on Lazada for its 3-day sale

  * News1 week ago

    Xiaomi teases next-gen under-display fingerprint scanning

  * India1 week ago

    Samsung teases the new Galaxy M series, to fight off Xiaomi in India

  * Reviews3 days ago

    Honor View 20 review: No notch, no problem

  * News5 days ago

    Snapdragon 855’s official AnTuTu benchmark score beats the competition

  * Apps2 weeks ago

    San Bidet: The app we need to poop in peace

  * Enterprise6 days ago

    Foxconn fired 50,000 workers since last year

  * About Us
  * Reviews Policy
  * Terms of Service
  * Privacy Policy
  * Disclaimer
  * Contact Us

Copyright © 2018 GadgetMatch Pte. Ltd.