* News
  * Business
  * Counties
  * Sports
  * Blogs & Opinion
  * Life & Style
  * Videos
  * Photos
  * News
    PoliticsAfricaWorld

    Latest News


    Malawi ex-president Joyce Banda enters election race


    Western envoys apologise to SA


    White House denies Trump link to graft probe


    City Park shooting: Victim's husband testifies in court

  * Business
    Seeds of Gold

    Latest Business


    Kebs blacklists 2 more companies in aflatoxin purge


    Foreign investors stake at NSE hits a 7-year low


    Moody's says NIC, CBA merger good for banking sector


    Avocado farmers accuse Kakuzi of not paying

  * Counties
    CoastEasternMount Kenya NorthernNorth RiftSouth RiftNyanza-KisiiWestern

    Latest Counties


    Man pursues Ali Roba's private prosecution


    Shock as man stabs his pregnant wife


    Police criticised for locking up minor in cell with adults


    The ups and downs of life at Busia border

  * Sports
    FootballAthleticsRugbyGolfOthersTalkUp

    Latest Sports


    UK rescuers launch bid to recover body from Sala's plane


    Kenyan runner opens second petrol station


    Butali raid Police, make away with two strikers


    Investigators plan 'operation' on crashed Sala plane

  * Blogs & Opinion
    BlogsCommentariesEditorialCartoons

    Latest Blogs & Opinion


    CHEGE: The writing is on the wall: Protect wetlands or we all perish


    OTHIENO: Courts to the rescue as scientists slumber


    BETT: Ensure your safety on the internet


    KWEYU: Clergy who take ‘dirty’ offerings, tithe cleanse and

  * Life & Style
    Art & CultureFamilyHealthShowbizTravelWomen & StyleMagazines

    Latest Life & Style


    LOVE SERIES: Love brewed on the internet


    Why sweet potato is the darling for farmers in western Kenya


    OUT&ABOUT: Sleepless in Amsterdam


    Gut feeling: study links depression to digestive bacteria

  * Videos

    Latest Videos


    NTV Kenya - LIVE


    6 hours ago Sala's father reacts after wreckage of plane found


    6 hours ago Oscar nominees gather for lunch in Los Angeles


    6 hours ago Rude Boy Okoye opens up to reasons for Psquare breakup on Live UnCut

  * Photos

    Latest Photos

 1. Home
 2. Life & Style

TECH BREAK: OPPO F9’s one of a kind technology


Monday September 24 2018


Comedian Jaymo Ule Msee with the OPPO F9 phone. PHOTO| COURTESY


In Summary

  * The device has been on pre-order since September 10, 2018 and will officially go on sale on September 24 at Sh35,990 for the 4GB version and Sh37,990for the 6GB version.

  * For the first time, OPPO applies a gradient design on the side frame, making the sides and the back a naturally connected whole.


Advertisement

By HILARY KIMUYU

Ever longed for a phone you could charge for only five minutes? Look no further than the latest OPPO phone model, the F9, which gives you a two-hour talk time after charging for only five minutes because of its VOOC fast charge support.


Voltage Open Loop Multi-Step Constant Current Charging (VOCC) is a technology that has been developed exclusively by and for OPPO.


Launched last Monday, the phone also boastsof a unique water-drop screen design with a ratio of 90.8 percent, a front with a top notch that hosts the receiver, camera and light sensor for more condensed space and more compact layout.


SYMMETRICAL BEAUTY


According to Jesse Wu, OPPO Kenya Brand Manager, the design brings the handset a symmetrical beauty allowing users to view more content on the well displayed on the 6.23-inch screen.


“Today’s customer is in constant move. We have therefore developed OPPO F9 to fit in with this nature and lifestyle, and to create a new trend in the industry.” said James Irungu, PR and Communications Manager of OPPO Kenya.


The VOOC technology applies a low voltage fast charging mechanism to deliver rapid charge at a speed four times faster than the normal conventional charging technology while ensuring a safe charging process with five layers of protection from the charging adapter to smartphone, including low temperature and voltage.


The device comes to the market in two colours, Sunrise Red and Twilight Blue. Starry Purple will be available in the market before the end of the year.


For the first time, OPPO applies a gradient design on the side frame, making the sides and the back a naturally connected whole.


TWO VARIANTS


Based on Android 8.1, the phone comes in two variants a 4GB RAM and a 6GB RAM both having a 64GB storage which can further be expanded with an internal microSD card of up to 256GB.


For the first time, the F series is equipped with dual rear cameras (16MP + 2MP) also pioneering the 25MP A.I front camera.


It also brings the ColorOS 5.2 Operating System to create a smarter interactive experience for users. The F9 is equipment with Google Lens that identifies objects and shows relevant search results and information.


The device has been on pre-order since September 10, 2018 and will officially go on sale on September 24 at Sh35,990 for the 4GB version and Sh37,990for the 6GB version.


Advertisement

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

In the headlines


Western envoys apologise to SA


Five embassies regret joint memo to President Cyril Ramaphosa.


City Park shooting: Victim's husband testifies in court


Witness denies claims of an affair between his wife and a nephew who survived the shooting.


Malawi ex-president Joyce Banda enters election race


Tshisekedi set to visit Kenya after Angola tour


Kenyan runner opens second petrol station


UK rescuers launch bid to recover body from Sala's plane


Top Somali commander killed by landmine


Zimbabwe HIV pill pastor convicted


NEVER MISS A STORY


Get Breaking News Delivered to your Inbox

Subscribe
Latest: Life and Style
* 1 Family LOVE SERIES: Love brewed on the internet
* 2 Smart Company Why sweet potato is the darling for farmers in western Kenya
* 3 Travel OUT&ABOUT: Sleepless in Amsterdam
* 4 Health Gut feeling: study links depression to digestive bacteria
* 5 Smart Company Ex-Uhuru adviser says debt may affect growth in Kenya
* 6 Weekend Short story anthology that digs deep into our emotions
LATEST NTV VIDEOS

Wilson Kiprop and Martha Akeno win event in Kalokol


Andre Casa appointed AFC Leopards head coach


Western Stima's Paul Ogai honoured for December performances


George 'Wise' Owino accused of accepting money to fix matches


Sierra Leone president creates commission to investigate corruption


Latest Nairobi News
KenyaBuzz View all

Full Movie Schedule


News

Politics Africa World

Business

Seeds of Gold

Counties

Coast Eastern Mount Kenya Northern North Rift South Rift Nyanza-Kisii Western

Sports

Football Athletics Rugby Golf Others TalkUp

Blogs & Opinion

Blogs Commentaries Editorial Cartoons

Life & Style

Art & Culture Family Health Showbiz Travel Women & Style Magazines

Videos


Photos


Subscribe


Apps

  * 

* Information

  * Contact Us
  * FAQ
  * E-papers
  * Privacy Policy
  * Terms

NMG Sites

  * Lit360
  * Nation Transitions
  * Nairobi News
  * Business Daily
  * NTV
  * NTV Uganda
  * Daily Monitor
  * The Citizen
  * Mwananchi
  * Mwanaspoti
  * Taifa Leo
  * Swahili Hub
  * The EastAfrican
  * Nation Media Group

Follow us


Daily Nation