Global (EN)

My Profile LOGOUT

Notification Message

There is no new notifications.
There is no new messages.
VIEW ALL
SMARTPHONE
HONOR View20
HONOR 8C
HONOR 10 Lite
HONOR Magic2
HONOR 8X
View More
ACCESSORIES
HONOR Watch Magic
HONOR Sport Bluetooth Earphones
HONOR Band4(Running)
HONOR Band3
View More
BRAND
ABOUT HONOR
NEWS
BLOG
ALBUM
Gallery
EVENT
SUPPORT
Login/Register
Message
My Profile
LOGOUT
Global

Recommend Search

RESULT()
+Load more

SELECT YOUR COUNTRY OR REGION

  * GLOBAL
  * ASIA PACIFIC
  * EUROPE
  * LATIN AMERICA
  * MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA
  * NORTH AMERICA
GLOBAL
Global - English
ASIA PACIFIC
India - English
Malaysia - English
Vietnam - Tiếng Việt
Myanmar - မြန်မာ
Indonesia - Bahasa
Thailand - ไทย
Australia - English
Philippines - English
Singapore - English
Bangladesh - English
China - 简体中文
Hong Kong - China 繁體中文
EUROPE
Bulgaria - Български
Greece - Ελληνικά
Netherlands - Dutch
Russia - Pусский
Czech - Čeština
Germany - Deutsch
Norway - Norsk språk
Spain - Español
Finland - Suomi
Hungary - Magyar Nyelv
Poland - Polski
United Kingdom - English
France - Français
Italy - Italiano
Serbia - Cрпски jезик
Sweden - Svenska
Turkey - Türkiye
Belarus - Pусский
Kyrgyzstan - Pусский
Slovakia - Slovenčina
Romania - Română
Ukraine - Український
LATIN AMERICA
Colombia - Español
Mexico - Español
MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA
Egypt - العربية
Farsi - فارسی
Pakistan - English
Iraq - العربية
Levant - العربية
South Africa - English
Morocco - Français
Middle East & Africa - English
Middle East & Africa - العربية
Saudi Arabia - English
Saudi Arabia - العربية
United Arab Emirates - English
United Arab Emirates - العربية
NORTH AMERICA
United States - English
Canada - English

SELECT YOUR COUNTRY

United Arab Emirates
Farsi
Italy
Saudi Arabia

Notice

You are being redirected to a third party website. 0S
ok
Global Products Smartphone Honor 8-Honor Official Site（Global）-Honor Smartphones

Honor 8


  * Eyes To The World


    12MP Dual Camera / 3D Fingerprint / Fast Charging


    3D Fingerprint
    12MP Dual Camera
    Fast Charging

    PRODUCT VIDEO

  * Design and Craftsmanship


      + With 2.5D glasses made body, best leveraging the thickness and strength of glasses, diamond-cut elegant round assured by aluminum alloy, and ultra-narrow bezel design, Honor 8 offers smooth, seamless design and a thorough feeling.


    Dual 2.5D glass


    Rounded edges


      + Standout your phone with the 3D grating effect thru carefully polished15-layer craftsmanship.


    15-layer craftsmanship


  * Camera


      + Featuring one RGB and one monochrome sensor, 1.25 um large pixel size, the dual 12MP lenses capture more lights, increase picture quality, bring bright color and crisper details to your photos.


      + The build-in ISP, aligned with the depth measurement ISP, improve the focus, speeds and processing to your photo taken.


    12MP dual-lens camera


    Dual ISP


      + Wanna high quality photos under marco, blacklight, lowlight and complex condition? Hybrid auto-focus aligns laser focusing for short range, precise depth focus for long range as well as the contrast focus to make things possible.


      + Enjoyed full manual control the professional camera has? Try the professional mode and record your everyday adventure in different way.


    Hybrid auto-focus


    professional mode


      + Want to get your photo more creative? Wide aperture mode enables you to blur background from F0.95 to F16, and allows you to redefine the focus even after photo taking.


    wide aperture mode


      + · With an 8 megapixel front-facing camera, you can achieve superior selfies even in low light.


      + · Always on your very best look thru the unique perfect selfie from the 8 MP front-facing camera.


    1.4um pixel size


    perfect selfie mode


    8 MP front-facing camera


  * Versatile Touch and Feel


      + With 0.4-second phone unlock, auto learning skills set and 3D fingerprint reading ,level-4 fingerprint collection algorithm delivers advanced experience on speed, intelligence and security. While the build-in custom smart key function defines a new style of touch.


      + Furthermore, Honor 8 offers NFC tag read N write, P2P transfer, SIM/ HCE-based mobile payment, be more accessible to the mobile internet era.


    0.4-second unlock


    3D fingerprint


    NFC


  * CPU


      + · Honor 8 is powered by a 2.3 GHz octa-core CPU built on a 16nm architecture. 4GB of LPDDR4 RAM enables flawless multitasking and seamless gaming.


      + · The CPU chipset contains an i5 co-processor, which controls Honor 8’s sensors and other features. The i5 co-processor works aligned with the Kirin 950 SoC chipset to increase processing speeds, response times, and battery life.


      + · Honor 8 has a rapid smart file processing system for a smooth user experience.


    2.3 GHz octa-core CPU


    i5 co-processor


    smart file processing system


  * Display


      + Brighter color, smarter visibility control, more details! Honor 8’s 5.2-inch FHD display equipped with 96% high color gamut (NTSC), color enhancement and dynamic pixel-level contrast adjustment technology definitely brings a great view experience. By filtering out part of blue light to reduce eye strain, the eye-care mode makes the view experience even more comfortable and safer.


    5.2 inches


    1080p FHD display


    eye-care mode


  * Battery


      + · 3000mAh large battery supported by Smart Power 4.0 maximizes its stand-by time: 1.77 days for normal usage and 1.22 days for heavy usage. Watching non-stop compete on twist ? Honor 8 gets you covered with powerful 10-hour offline video playing.


      + · 9V/2A fast charging technology promises a 47% charge in just 30 minutes. In addition, Honor 8 gives you a two-hour phone call or six-hour offline music listening with just 10-minute charge.


      + * Honor 8 only supports 9V2A charging when used with the factory-provided charger.

        Charging times may vary depending on the charger used and the ambient conditions.


        * 3000mAh for typical rate, 2900mAh for rated rate.


        * Data based on Honor laboratory tests, actual times may vary.


    3000 mAh


    Fast charging


    Smart Power 4.0


  * Intelligent Communication


      + Honor 8 has double antenna which can seamlessly switch to the one with stronger signal, ensuring you always have the best possible reception.


      + You can use Huawei's international carrier database, which will help your phone register more quickly on local networks when roaming.


      + Smart dual-band Wi-Fi switching: Supports 2.4/5 GHz bands. Defaults to faster 5 GHz band unless 2.4 GHz signal is stronger.


    Smart double antenna switch


    Smart dual-band Wi-Fi support


  * Smart Control 4.0


      + Honor8 includes a separate infrared module with built-in IR codes for popular products, allowing you to control devices even when you are without an Internet connection. Honor8 supports 232,740 products from 5810 brands, with an impressive 99% accuracy rating.


  * Smart media


      + Voice +


        Don’t want to hold your phone to have a talk? The high-gain microphone, voice plus technology and volume amplification feature release your hands without sacrifice the audio quality at both end of the line.


      + Dynamic noise-canceling


        Honor8 has enhanced hands-free support, including a high-sensitive microphone, Voice+ technology, and volume amplification features. Enjoy improved audio quality at both ends of the line.


      + Integrated speaker unit


        Honor8 features an integrated speaker unit that provides high-quality music playback.


  * EMUI


    EMUI 4.1 + Android 6.0 : Smoothness & Innovation


  * Eco-friendly


      + Honor 8 is certificated with UL 110 (Platinum level). And to alleviate the environmental impact, package box and user manuals are soy ink printed.


      + The packaging box is made of FSC certificated paper, contributing to the forest sustainable development.

×

Honor 8

Close X

ALWAYS STAY UPDATED


Subscribe for updates, special offers and more.


Thanks for your subscription


Follow HONOR


Share your idea


  * ABOUT HONOR

    Brand Event News Blog Album

  * PRODUCTS

    HONOR View20 HONOR 8C HONOR 10 Lite HONOR Magic2 HONOR 8X HONOR Play

  * SUPPORT

    Support Centre Declaration of Conformity

  * TECHNOLOGY

    GPU Turbo Kirin 980

CONTACT US


Monday - Friday

honorglobal@hihonor.com

Global


English

Site Map | Terms Of Use | Privacy | Cookies | Legal | 苏ICP备17040376号
Copyright © 2019 Huawei Software Technologies Co., Ltd.
We use cookies to improve our site and your experience. By continuing to browse our site you accept our cookie policy. Find out more.