* Home
  * Destinations
      + Africa
      + Congo
      + Egypt
      + Ethiopia
      + Ghana
  * Travel News
  * Hotels
  * Food Trips
      + Recipes
  * Gadgets
      + Mobile Travel Apps
      + Travel Gears
  * Hotel Booking
Search
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
  * About
  * Be a Contributor
  * Work With Us
  * Contact
  * Home
  * Destinations

      + Jakarta Bucket List: 15 Best Things to do in Jakarta, Indonesia


        Malasimbo Festival 2019: New Venue and everything you need to know


        Making Connectivity A King: OPPO Unveils Its Find X 5G Prototype


        The Art of Batik Making in Yogyakarta, Indonesia


        All the Special M Bakery Desserts for the Perfect Valentine Surprise

        AllAfricaCongoEgyptEthiopiaGhana
  * Travel News
  * Hotels

      + Resort Review: Club Agutaya Resort in San Vicente, Palawan


        LIST: Best Romantic Hotels in Tagaytay City (2019 Edition)


        Ultimate List of the Best Hotels in Yogyakarta, Indonesia


        The Ultimate List of the Best Dubai Luxury Hotels


        Ultimate List of the Best Beach Resorts in Quezon Province

  * Food Trips

      + All the Special M Bakery Desserts for the Perfect Valentine Surprise


        11 Native Delicacies You Should Taste When in Isabela Province


        Kitsho proffers sumptuous Valentine feast


        Pure Veggie House Celebrates 2019 with International Expansion to Taiwan


        Celebrate the Year of the Pig at The Drunken Pot Causeway Bay

        AllRecipes
  * Gadgets

      + Making Connectivity A King: OPPO Unveils Its Find X 5G Prototype


        OPPO Introduces Next-Gen Camera Technology With 10x Lossless Zoom; Product To Be Showcased At The MWC 2019


        Travel Gadget: The New OPPO F9 Jade Green


        Travel Gadget: OPPO R17 Pro is the ideal nightlife partner for young urbanites Inbox


        GADGET REVIEW: Tronsmart Encore Spunky Buds Bluetooth Earphones

        AllMobile Travel AppsTravel Gears
  * Hotel Booking
Out of Town Blog
  * Asia
  * Philippines
  * Travel Tips
  * Photography
  * Travel Gadgets

OPPO F9 Review: Not Your Average Selfie Smartphone

By
Melo Villareal
-
September 14, 2018
893
0
Share on FacebookTwitterSubscribe

Enter your email address:


Delivered by FeedBurner


Travel Gadget: OPPO F9 Review


Table of Contents

  * Travel Gadget: OPPO F9 Review
      + Specs
      + Great Features
      + Travel Photography
      + Sample Photos using OPPO F9
      + Overall Review
      + OPPO F9 Stores
      + Like this:
      + Comments

Manila, Philippines – OPPO F9 is the latest Smartphone recently launched by one of the leading smartphone brands. It’s a powerful phone with limitless capabilities in terms of photography, durability, charging, battery life, storage capacity and more.


OPPO F9 Review

OPPO is revolutionizing the use of Smartphone through the VOOC 5-minute charging and its top of the line selfie features which is a must for anyone buying a new phone. It has Dual Sim features and accepts Nano Sim. Connectivity won’t be a problem with its WIFI, GPS, Micro-USB, 3G, and 4G bandwidth.

 

Looking for a Place to Stay? Visit Agoda for a wide range of accommodation options with great hotel deals and best price guarantee.

Specs


OPPO F9 in Misibis Bay

Oppo F9 comes in three colors; Sunrise Red, Starry Purple, and Twilight Blue, all of which feature a shiny frame with some curves that add a unique appeal to the Smartphone. It’s lightweight with only 169 g and has a height and width of 156.7 mm X 74 mm. Its 6GB Ram is an improved version compared to the F7 although some features like its CPU and GPU are the same but never the less, its functionality is remarkable. Its 3500mAH battery will run for at least 2 days. Its high resolution offers clear displays and colorful screen.


Great Features


One of the remarkable features of F9 is its VOOC Flash Charging. For people with a busy schedule, 5-minute charging already means two hours of talking. It doesn’t get better than that. It’s also safe too as it uses low voltage but the result is great.


Travel Gadget Review – OPPO F9

Aside from that, the F9 has five layers of protection which means it has protective layers from the Smartphone’s adapter, its port, and its interior so it’s very safe. Its battery management system avoids battery drain and studies the usual patterns of phone navigation and automatically shuts off apps that aren’t in use. It also has VOOC car charger which is just like its regular charger.


The design of F9 especially the backside is amazing. It’s not only glossy but due to its curves, the colors shift as you move it. With three colors to choose from (Sunrise Red, Starry Purple, and Twilight Blue), there’s a color for everyone. Another new feature of F9 is its 6.93-inch waterdrop screen which, when you look at the front, you’ll see sort of a tear-drop looking notch where the front camera is located. And for travelers, the big screen allows better videos and games.


Travel Photography


The 25MP AI selfie options of OPPO F9 plus its 5MP front camera with sensor HDR result to photos that are crisp and clear. So, whether you’re at a dark nightclub or under the bright sunshine, there are no worries for great selfie options.


Sample Photos using OPPO F9


There’s no better way to prove the fantastic photos this smartphone can capture than showcasing the sample shots I took from my recent travels. Here they are:


Selfie – Flight to Calbayog City

The Coral Reef Beach Resort in Calbayog City


Tarangban Falls in Calbayog City


Group Selfie in Tarangban Falls in Calbayog City


Golden River in Basey, Eastern Samar


Sohoton Cave in Basey Samar


MacArthur Landing Memorial National Park in Palo, Leyte


Inside Palo Leyte Cathedral


Palo Leyte Cathedral


Melo in Lake Danao Natural Park


Kalanggaman Island


Kalanggaman Island in Palompon Leyte


Roxas Boulevard Manila


Sunset in Mall of Asia Complex


Misibis Bay Resort


Boodle Fight in Misibis Bay Resort


Misibis Beach


I literally tested the phone for all types of photos I usually take each time I travel. So far, I’m impressed by its capability to take fantastic low-light, selfie, food and landscape photos.


Overall Review


Based on my previous experiences using previous flagship phones of OPPO, I can say that F9 definitely is more than just a selfie phone. I have used this several times during my out of town trips and the travel photos are amazing.


OPPO F9 Sunrise Red

As a travel blogger, this may be the most important feature of F9 that I truly love because there are times when I just want to use my Smartphone to take photos and OPPO F9 gives me that freedom to do that and the results are fantastic that I can use the photos on my blog posts.


I like that OPPO F9’s VOOC Flash Charger allows me to use it at once after charging it for only 5 minutes considering my busy schedule. Its high capacity and large storage are also what I need so I can save photos, videos, games and other files without worrying it’s taking too much space.


OPPO F9 Launch in the Philippines

Lastly, the beautiful colors of F9 which come in Sunrise Red, Starry Purple, and Twilight Blue are attractive and trendy apart from being functional. The colors are also easy to match to my other belongings so that’s a plus for me. The unique texture of the backside is remarkable and a totally unique take on Smartphone design.


All these features and specs make a great Smartphone that I can use wherever I go.


OPPO F9

OPPO F9 Stores


You can buy the OPPO F9 which comes in Sunrise Red and Twilight Blue for Php17,990 from authorized OPPO dealers and concept stores nationwide. You can also learn about other OPPO products and activities through the OPPO Philippines official Facebook page and on Twitter and Instagram @OPPOPhilippines.


Also Read:

  * Travel Gadget: New OPPO F9 with VOOC Fast Charging Now Available in the Philippines
  * 8 Ways Our Smartphones Changed The Way We Travel

Like this:

Like Loading...

Comments


comments

Book Trains, Buses, Ferries, Transfers & Flights
Powered by 12Go Asia system
  * TAGS
  * Gadget Review
  * OPPO F9
  * OPPO F9 Review
  * OPPO Reviews
  * Product Reviews
  * Smartphone reviews
Previous articleHot news: McDonald’s McSpicy is making an exciting comeback!
Next articleLangkawi Bucket List: Top 15 Best Things to do in Langkawi, Malaysia
Melo Villareal
http://www.melovillareal.com
Melo Villareal is the Online Publisher of Outoftownblog.com. He is an Accountant by profession who left the corporate world at the age of 23 to explore his beautiful country and the rest of the world. Today, Melo works as a part-time Social Media Manager for local and international clients. His full time work focuses on discovering interesting culture, explore different cuisines and take memorable photos (photography portfolio) from local and international destinations he's visiting.

RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR

Philippines

Help make the La Mesa Watershed greener through OPPO x ABS-CBN Bantay Kalikasan’s Charity Photo Contest

Philippines

Travel Gadget: The New OPPO F9 Jade Green

Travel Gadgets

Gadget Review: Tronsmart TRIM Power Bank


Leave a Reply


This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.


Hotel Discounts


FEATURED HOTEL

Hotels

Review: Pearl Farm Beach Resort in Samal Island

Denise Alyssa G. Villamar - October 6, 2017
1
Pearl Farm Beach Resort Review There’s nothing quite like paradise. And fortunately, this-so-called paradise is just within our island. Just a 2-hour plane ride, and...

ADS


Get AirBnB Credits


TRAVEL RESOURCES

The Philippines Top Travel Blogs



Enter your email address:


Delivered by FeedBurner


Follow us on Instagram @teamoutoftown

Listed in the World's Top 50 Travel Blogs, Out of Town Blog is an online travel magazine that offers latest travel news, travel guides, hotel reviews, travel gadget reviews, travel tips and tales from various local and international correspondents. For questions, invitations, sponsorships, collaborations and advertising inquiries, please reach us using this contact form.
Contact us: melovillareal@gmail.com
  * Disclaimer
  * Privacy
  * Terms and Conditions
  * Contact Us
© Copyright 2017 - Listed in the World's Top 50 Travel Blogs - Viral Buzz Makers.
%d bloggers like this: